Griffin: Previously on The Adventure Zone…


Director: Congratulations are in order, the three of you are now fully fledged members of our order. Uh, we are happy to have you on as reclaimers, we’ll send you out on missions and you will do what you did in Phandalin. Ideally without involving the destruction of an entire city and also thousands of souls—


Magnus: Well… I mean, ideally, yeah, but like…


Justin: Griffin put the capsule game from Shenmue into our game.


[laughter]


Griffin: Well, and also the capsule game from Kroger—


Griffin: You pop open that capsule, uh, and inside is… an axe.


Leon: And it is said that the Rail Splitter can, in a single swipe, chop down any tree.


Griffin: Why don’t we go to Fantasy Costco and you can level up while you’re walking around.


Griffin: You get the Extreme Teen Bible and the Scuttle Buddy.


Merle: And I want a warranty!


Cashier: Uh, the bible doesn’t need a warranty, sir; it’s the good book.


Griffin: Alright, let’s level you guys up.


Travis: Um, so I chose Battle Master.


Clint: I was kinda thinking of maybe nature.


Griffin: Interesting. I never pictured you as the Captain Planet type.


Justin: Yeah, I’m gonna be joining the school of transmutation.


Justin: Keep your fucking feedback to yourself.


Griffin: Well, no, don’t—


Justin: Stuff it in your magical ass.


Announcer: Are you not entertained? And if you are, why don’t you make it rain on our ass? It’s a MaxFunDrive Adventure Zone!


[Theme music: Déjà Vu by Mort Garson]


{1:48}


Griffin: The three of you are sound asleep. Like sweet… little lambs.


[someone makes cartoon “snoring” sounds]



Griffin: Uh, in your, um, we’ll call it humble. It is a humble dormitory, provided to you by the Bureau of Balance. Uh…


Travis: Have we put up like girly posters and, like, there's maybe like a lava lamp?


Griffin: No, no posters. The RA comes by every night.


Justin: [groans] That guy!


Griffin: And he is a real stickler for posters.


Clint: He is a dick.


Justin: What about the Dean? What's our relationship with the Dean like?


Travis: Good question.


Griffin: Uhm, you’ve pranked him a lot, so you’re kind of on his shit list.


Clint: We’re like the Delta House. We’re on double secret probation.


Travis: I don’t get it. What- Is that a reference to something?


Griffin: You’re not… you can’t make Animal House references every—


Clint: You’re children; you don’t know.


Griffin: Every episode. Um.


Justin: [laughing] Welcome to Leonard Maltin's House of Old Movies. Leonard Maltin.


[laughter]


Griffin: Uh, so your dormitory, your room, uh it, it, no windows. Kinda like, kinda like you’re living in a submarine.


Travis: Are we in a prison?


Justin: [crosstalk] Yeah, is this a prison?


Griffin: No, but sometimes it feels like it. It’s not a prison as much as it is the ground… the entry-level living compartment. Is the— That’s the actual, uh, classification that the Bureau of Balance uses. The entry-level—


Clint: Co-ed dorm, maybe…?


Griffin: No, just, well, if they’re not for you specifically. You do have a roommate. You've got a double bunk bed situation. And you have a roommate. He is— he is a halfling named Robbie. And…


[Clint laughs]


Griffin: He’s kind of… shitty. He's not a great roommate. He, uh, he eats all of your snack chips before you even have a chance to get to them.


[Justin laughs]


Griffin: Uhhm. He loses your DVDs.


Justin: [laughing] I kinda li- I kinda like his style.


Griffin: There’s just loose, there’s loose DVDs from your West Wing, like, full collection boxset just laying all over the place.


Justin: [crosstalk] Oh, I hate that.


Travis: But he’s always got the choicest potions.


Griffin: He does have some dank potions and that’s kind of like the only thing that he has going for him. So, it is, uh, it’s about 3:00 in the morning. Uh, you—


Travis: Griffin, I have a serious question for you real quick.


Griffin: Ooookay.


Travis: Since we’ve brought the gauntlet in, are we kind of like… are we like… big shits, like here, like do people know who we are? Is it like, “Oh, they’re like the first people to actually collect one of these artifacts.”


Justin: He's saying are we a b— Are we a big deal?


Travis: Yeah.


Griffin: Uh… I would say, yeah, you guys are somewhat big shits. You've kind of got a Harry Potter vibe going for you, right? Like, it’s— it’s—


Travis: Okay.


Griffin: You're not, you know. Nobody’s like—


Clint: [sarcastically] Who’s Harry Potter?


Travis: Okay. All right.


Griffin: Mmkay. He’s like, a, um…. He’s a wizard.


[Travis laughs]


Griffin: You’re not… nobody’s like lifting you up in the hallways and carrying you to your destination, but you— you got some respect. And that’s important.


[all agreeing]


Griffin: Uh, when you’re on the inside. Again, you’re not in prison, I don’t know why I said that.


[Travis laughs]


Griffin: So it’s about three in the morning, you’re all sound asleep, uh, or at least you were until you were awoken by—


Travis: Robbie masturbating.


Griffin: Robbie just fucking blasting it. Uh, where are you guys— I should—


Clint: God, hope I’m in the lower bunk.


Griffin: Yeah, to set the scene, where— what is— what is your guys’ bunk situation?


Clint: Well, I guess I’m the shortest, so I’m probably under Robbie’s bunk.


Griffin: Why would you think just the, the smaller races have to sleep in one set of beds and the taller—


Clint: Well, no, no just because the big guys would overpower me and they wouldn’t want—


Travis: Woah, hey.


Clint: —to sleep with a halfling.


Griffin: That doesn’t, no, dwarves are not necessarily less physically capable.


Clint: I’m talking emotionally. Emotionally.


Griffin: Oh, well then yes, you are not equipped for confrontation.


Clint: No.


Griffin: Unless it involves, um, y’know, spiritual magics.


Travis: I would say that Magnus—


Clint: Or touching my Kenny Chesney CDs!


Griffin: You’re right.


Travis: Magnus wanted to be on a bottom bunk, but he’s too passive-aggressive so he’s on the top bunk, Taako’s on the bottom bunk. But he wants to be on the bottom bunk.


Griffin: And he just picked the top bunk, and he just hates it?


Travis: Well, it depends, Taako, where do you want to be? Uh, I’ll defer to you.


Justin: Uh, am I in character?


Griffin: Yep. We’re recording the podcast now.


Justin: Is it— no, I mean are you asking Justin or are you asking Taako, in character?


Griffin: Ohh.


Clint: Ask Taako.


Travis: Oh, it’s tough.


Justin: —in a conversation you’re having with Taako.


Clint: What do you want, Taako?


Justin: Who do you want to speak to, Travis?


Travis: Um, I’m terrified to state, I’d rather speak to Justin, I like him better.


Justin: Yeah, I get that, like, I’ll take whatever, I think Taako would be pretty chill about it. I feel like he’d probably fall asleep just like on whatever, the first bed he touched.


Travis: I think this is actually how it worked out in character in the scene. Just the three of them, just like, “No, it’s fine, do you want—” and Robbie going “Fuuck.”


Justin: I’ll say top. Top— top bunk.


Travis: Okay. Magnus on the bottom bunk.


Griffin: Okay, you are eye-level—


Justin: I can levitate, so it’s less of a risk for me to be up there. [laughter]


Griffin: You’re also eye-level with Robbie, which you may or may not want. Cause he gets into some wack shit. Up on the second story. Of the sleeping.


Travis: He’s got boundary issues.


Griffin: He does. Uh, I mean his boundaries are fine. But he gets into your boundaries. And just makes a mess of things.


Travis: He’s all up in your boundaries.


Griffin: It’s three in the goddamn morning. And the three of you are woken up by the sound of chimes coming from the intercom. Bing-bing-bing! And you hear, uh—


Travis: [grunts, startled awake]


Griffin: You hear the voice of Davenport say um:


Davenport: Would the Reclaimers Highchurch, Burnsides, and Taaco report to the briefing room? Mm, Davenport!


Travis: I forgot that Taako’s last name was also Taaco. [laughs]


Griffin: Yeah, it’s like Mario Mario. Or Luigi Mario. Um… You are all awoken with a start, and Robbie’s like:


Robbie: Oh, man, what a bummer. I was just gettin’ some of those good Z’s.


Griffin: And he takes a potion out from under his pillow.


Robbie: I don’t know why I keep these under here, they’re real uncomfortable.


Griffin: He slams it.


Justin: [laughs] What soda does it most resemble?


Griffin: Uh, I mean it’s not in an [british pronunciation] aluminium can.


Justin: Right, it’s a liquid, right.


Travis: He pops the top. Slams it.


Justin: What liquid does it most— what liquid soda does it most—


Griffin: It’s actually kind of got like a— it’s kinda like Orbitz, you remember Orbitz?


Clint: I was gonna say it looks like that nasty stuff with the gel balls.


Travis: That would be Orbitz.


Griffin: He looks and he’s like:


Robbie: Caught you— caught you eyeing— ayy, caught you eyeing my gel balls. That’s what makes it extra crunchy.


Griffin: And he winks. And he swigs, again.


Clint: Hey, can we get the hell away from him, as soon as possible?


Justin: Griffin, I wanna— sidebar, I’m a little worried about this, this episode, I’m worried that you like exhausted yourself so much coming up with the fantasy name Robbie that you may not have the creative juice to get us through the rest of the ep.


Clint: We need to be reassured.


Griffin: Well, uh, to actually make up for that, all of the characters in this entire campaign chapter will be named Robbie and that’s gonna be very confusing for both you guys and the listeners.


[laughter]


Justin: Excellent.


Clint: Good job, Juice.


Travis: Well, I think it’s all gonna be based on inflection, though, at that point, cause it’s like, Robbie, Robbie, Robubieee.


Justin: Me? I’m [in a strained old voice] Rooooobbiiieee.


Griffin: And I’m a skeleton.


Magnus: Yo, Robbie! Can I get one of them potions before we leave?


Robbie: Um, do you got like, what do you need? What’s your flavor, what’s your poison?


Magnus: Give me your crunchiest— your crunchiest potion.


Merle: He’s gonna want something that attracts dogs.


Robbie: I’ll give ya a sampler. Of, uh, it’s called my hair of the dog potion. It won’t attract dogs, as much as it will just get you real fucked up,


Griffin: he says, he hands you a very small sampler vial, of uh, of hair of the dog potion.


Travis: Okay, I slip it in my bag.


Griffin: Mmkay. Robbie’s like,


Robbie: Uh, hey, can you, do you think, while you’re out, some Pringles, maybe?


        Magnus: You got it, dude!


Robbie: C’mon, can you take, also— I got a DVD, that’s like, four months overdue at the Redbox.


        Merle: Nah. Nah. Uh-uh. No, no.


        Taako: It’s too much.



        Merle: Too much.


Magnus: Nah. Pringles, yes, DVD, no.


Merle: And it’s gonna be the dill pickle Pringles, too, smartass!


        Robbie: Aw, man!


        Magnus: Extreme Dill?


Griffin: Uh, okay, I am imagining you guys are going to the briefing room.


Travis: I also imagine we don’t exactly know where it is.


Justin: Yeah, how are we getting there?


Clint: Just go to a dome.


Justin: Are there helpful signs?

Griffin: Yeah. There’s a dome, and then there’s a sign that says, “This dome is the briefing room.”


Travis: And we’re all still in our PJs.


Taako: Footie pajamas here!


Griffin: Uh, the three of you walk into the briefing room in your footies, in your onesies, in your Snuggies. Uhhm.


Clint: Mine has a flap in the back.


Griffin: Of course it does. Um, is it half open, so we can see a little bit of butt?


Clint: Yes! The left corner’s unbuttoned!


Travis: You see- you can see the little tattoo on his bottom.


Justin: You scamp.


Griffin: And what is that tattoo of?


Clint: That— that’s actually Kenny Chesney, too. But that’s the face; I’ve got the face on my left butt cheek.


Justin: And what’s on your right, the body?


Griffin: Yeah, I was gonna ask, do you have other body parts of Chesney sort of… scattered around— about your body, like—


Travis: It’s a mystery to be unfolded for the rest of the podcast.


Justin: On his other cheek is Tim McGraw, and it’s like this terrible hydra, with Tim McGraw and Kenny Chesney’s face heads emanating from his butthole. It’s a real horror show back there.


Clint: Actually, it just says, “She thinks my,” and then there’s a— a tattoo of a tractor and apostrophe s, “sexy”.


Griffin: So kind of a pictogram on your ass. Kind of a country music rebus.


Clint: Actually it’s Rebus McEntire.


Travis: A Rebus McEntire.


[laughter]


Travis: Woahh!


Clint: Thank you, I’ll be here all week!


Griffin: You are, uh—


Justin: I hope not.


Griffin: [laughing] —in the, uh, briefing chamber with the Director, and she is reading a large roll of parchment that actually kinda looks like the parchment that you saw the monk carrying when you first encountered the Voidfish, that had all of Magic Brian’s information on it. She is sitting over a large map showing the lands of the earth-world below. And she’s reading this parchment, she’s very frustrated, and she places it down on the chamber and says, uh:


Director: What… are you wearing? What is—? What are you wearing?


Magnus: What are you wearing?


Director: I— I’m wearing my full business regalia.


Magnus: Cool.



Merle: You got ink underneath that thing?


Director: And the three of you look like Little Nemos. Merle, I can see… three-quarters to four-fifths of your entire butt.


[laughter]



Merle: Sorry I’m cheating you of one fraction.


Dictor: You look like Jeffy from Family Circus.


Taako: This is my, uh, sleepy sack. I get night terrors.


Merle: I guess Mr. Wrong told me not to.


Director: The three of you will need—


Taako: Somebody unzip me!


Director: The three of you are going to need to suit up into your business regalia, because I have a job for you that I need you on right. Now.


Magnus: Well, give me, like, 45 minutes.


Director: We— You don’t have 45 minutes. At most, I can give you four.


Magnus: Okay.


Travis: Magnus starts changing.


Merle: Three of that’s going to be hair product!


Griffin: Uh, she says:


Director: Mere hours ago, one of our Reclaimers, uhh, a brave soldier named Leeman Kessler, was… murdered in the city of Rockport.


Magnus: Aw, bummer!


Director: And his— his murder came at a most inopportune time because he managed to locate—


Justin: Griff, is Leeman Kessler a listener?


Griffin: Uh-huh.


Justin: So somebody listening at home was just like “Hey— aw.”


[laughter]


Travis: “Aw, damn it.”


Magnus: Also, I would ask, when would a murder come at an opportune time?


[Justin laughs]


Director: His murder came a most inopportune time because he had just managed to locate and retrieve one of the Grand Relics.


Travis: “His murder came at an opportune time. He’d done everything he wanted to with his life—”


Griffin: “He was surrounded by family—”


[laughter]


Justin: They watched solemnly as an assassin came in and buried a knife in his heart— it was what he would have wanted—


Travis: And everyone agreed, it was the right time for that to happen.


[laughter]


Director: Last night, we received a missive telling of his success, but before we could extract him, a— a thick fog set in over Rockport, which prevented us from sending a sphere to collect him and the Relic. Um, however there is a commuter train that operates out of Rockport that runs from Rockport through the… the Teeth, the mountain range that separates the continent below and ends in Neverwinter, where we could more safely and discreetly extract him. He managed to secure passage on this train, loaded his cargo onto the train, but before it could depart he was… murdered. Ah, which is, leaving us in quite a sticky situation.


Merle: Hmmm.


Magnus: Do we know anything about the murderer or how it actually, like, went down?


Director: We know nothing, we haven’t been able to get into contact with the authorities— and even if we could, there’s not much information we could… tell them. It could— it could lead to, uh, I don’t know. It could lead to a very difficult situation for us. We can’t explain what he was doing there, why he was murdered— we don’t even know why he was murdered because, ostensibly, nobody would know about the Grand Relic unless they were in the, the, Bureau of Balance.  There’s— there’s— We— we have a lot of unknowns.


Taako: Do we know the status of the relic right now?


Director: It’s on the train as far as we know. Um… and that is where the three of you come in. We will need one of you, uh, it’s up to you to decide whom—


Taako: DIBS!


Director: O… kay, that was… We will need one of you to impersonate Leeman—


Taako: Double dibs.


Director: Leeman Kessler. Uh, I have secured two other tickets on— on the train so all three of you can board, but one of you will need to be Leeman Kessler. You will need to retrieve the Relic and get it back to us, uh any way that you can.


Magnus: What can you tell us about—


Merle: What did Leeman look like?


Taako: Yeah, what, what race was he?


Director: Uh, Leeman was a half-elf, uh, man.


Taako: Ohh-kay!


Director: And, uh, but— but— he… There was no guarantee that the operators of the Rockport Limited even know what he looked like. He could have secured his— his ticket in advance, so, so it’s up to you! Any one of you can be Leeman, whoever has the, I guess the… most panache, the most flair for the dramati—


Magnus: The highest performance skill?


Director: Whatever it takes, we’ll need you to… [sighs in exasperation] We’ll need to you to make-believe, make-pretend. Like a couple of actors. Or just one actor.


Taako: I’m actually negative one there, so I’m gonna diparooski.


[Travis laughs]


Merle: What will the other two be doing?


Director: The other two will be ensuring that the new Leeman Kessler, the fresh-off-the-block Leeman Kessler isn’t murdered. Because obviously someone’s going around murdering Leeman Kesslers. Uh, this— this will be also a security job.


Magnus: I got a— I got a +1.


Director: You don’t have to figure it out right now—



Taako: Who are you— who are you bringing with you?


[laughter]


Merle: If I need a body— if someone needs a bodyguard, I’d say I’ll be Leeman and that way our best fighter is able to protect me and our best magician is able to protect me.


Taako: Oh, I’m flattered—


Magnus: As opposed to all our other magicians.


Director: Okay.


Taako: Well, it’s, listen, that’s semantics!


Magnus: Uh, what can you tell us about the artifact?


Director: Uh, we don’t know. We can’t, we sort of, we—


Magnus: What the shit?


Director: Well, we know he collected an artifact, but if that missive had been intercepted in the air, we— that information, that incredibly valuable and dangerous information could have fallen into enemy hands, so we purposefully keep it vague.


Magnus: Well, great.


Merle: Let’s do it.


Taako: Are you gonna fire us out of the cannon?


Director: We absolutely are going to fire you out of a cannon.


Merle and Magnus: Yaaaay!


Magnus: One more question before we go. How do the gauntlets work?


Director: The what now?


Magnus: The gauntlets, the bracers.


Merle: Our bracers.


Director: Oh, you just—


Taako: The bracers!


Director: Point and click, baby. Windows 98.


Magnus: Okay, cool. Where’s Killian? Is she gonna come with? I’d feel better if she were there.


Director: Killian? Killian is a Regulator, she— she cannot go with you on a reclaiming mission.


Magnus: Well, can we signal for her if we get in trouble?


Director: The only way you will signal for her is if you find the artifact and use it.


Taako: And keep it, right?


Director: And then she will— Bat-signal, yes, will sound off, and then she will come, but not for hang-time; she will kill all of you.



Merle: You’re getting a little obvious there, Maggie.


Magnus: What? Listen, she’s a fan-favorite, I’m trying to reintroduce her to the story.


[Clint laughs]


Director: Yeah, I guess let’s get Johann and Klaarg in the mix too, huh? As long as we’re pandering.


Magnus: Yeah, I wanna keep the people.


Merle: [tearfully] Can we bring Billy Bluejeans back?


Director: Barry Bluejeans—


Magnus: It was Barry Bluejeans, his brother Billy Bluejeans is in Neverwinter.


Merle: We met Billy, too.


Taako: Uh, how quickly you forget, huh? Boy, Barry must have made a real impact on you.



[Clint laughs]


Clint: Alright, let’s go change clothes.


Travis: Magnus has already changed.


Griffin: Uh, how did you already change?


Travis: I started changing when you started telling your story about murdering somebody or something.


Griffin: You got your dick out and your whole naked body out while she was talking to you?


Travis: Yeah. But nobody noticed!


Griffin: You need to tell me these thing— You need to tell me these things while they are happening in real time—


Travis: I literally said, “Magnus starts changing”!


Griffin: Oh, okay, well… that was a successful—


Travis: Yeah.


Clint: We thought you meant change of life.


Griffin: Yeah, I thought you were pupating.


Travis: Magnus starts changing his opinions about politics.


[Clint laughs]


Griffin: Okay, you run back to your dormitory. Robbie’s there, he’s like,


Robbie: What’s up? You all goin’ on a secret mission? Ha ha haaaa.


Merle: Hey, do you have any disguise potions?


Taako: Oh, that’s a good question.


Robbie: No, but I’ve got a Rusted Root CD.


Magnus: Ha ha! I’ll take it.


Taako: ‘Kay!


Robbie: Huh, let me see, disguise potion.


Taako: IIII’m… gonna be sent on my way… on this adventure.


Robbie: No, my potions aren’t necessarily, um…


Merle: Useful.


Robbie: No— yeah, they, yeah, uh— they’re not utilitarian in nature, uh, I mean, unless the utility you want is to get… real fucked up,


Griffin: he says.


Merle: I’ll take one.


Robbie: Well, okay, I can’t just keep giving you guys these—


Merle: I’ll bring you back a Rusted Root CD.


Robbie: Hey. If you guys actually bring me back a rusted root, I can throw it in a mortar and pestle and whip up a kind of potion that has never been invented yet.


Merle: Alright. We’ll do it.


Griffin: Okay, the three of you report to the hangar. It’s uh, there’s not a lot of people out walking around the campus, obviously, most people are sleeping. Uh… not everybody’s been assigned a secret 3 a.m. mission. Uh, the— at the hangar there’s—


Travis: So you’re saying that the line at security is pretty light.


Griffin: Yeah, you— yeah, you make it through TSA, like, pretty quickly.


Justin: Uh, Ditto—


Travis: Did we stop at the Hudson News?


Griffin: Magnus, actually, the TSA wants to know about the super fuck-up potion, the Hair of the Dog potion that you have, because it’s over two ounces.


Clint: Oh. Drink it.



Griffin: You’re going to have to slam that right now, they say.


Travis: No!


Griffin: Yep, sorry.


Justin: Yep, yep.


Griffin: You’re gonna have to slam it right now or throw it away.


Travis: But I don’t wanna be fucked up in the cannon!


Justin: Slam it! Fuck up—


Clint: It may be better that way.


Travis: Okay, Magnus slams it.


Griffin: [laughing] Okay, you immediately—


Justin: Oh, gross, we just had to talk Magnus into something.


[laughter]



Griffin: Um. You immediately f—forget, like, how to speak well. You’re— you are— you will suffer a penalty to any wisdom checks until, we’ll say disadvantage to any wisdom checks until this thing wears off, but you’re real chill. You’re super duper chill, um, and you’re real happy about it.


Justin: Uh, Ditto, is this the first night that we are there? Like—


Griffin: No, sorry, I should have mentioned— yeah, I should have set up the timeline. Yeah, it’s been about three weeks since you’ve been there.


Justin: Okay.


Griffin: Yeah, things have been pretty quiet, there just hasn’t been a lot of new intel coming in, uh, and this is the first mission that you guys have really been assigned.


Justin: Have we done any sort of, like, learning, like, in the three weeks we’ve been here? We— Have we learned anything about the Relics or the nature of this organization, or anything that we’ve picked up of use?


Griffin: That’s actually a good question. So, yeah, what you’ve learned, you’ve learned a little bit about the Relics. The— the— there’s not a whole lot that is, like, concrete information about the Relics, because, uh… it— it just, by nature of the fact that they were never in the possession of one entity for long enough for that information to be, you know, especially trustworthy? Maybe there were a lot of misinformation campaigns spread during the— the conflict when people were trying to hunt these down to get people off of the scent? So there’s not a lot that you know for sure. Well, one thing that you do know is that each of the seven Relics, uh, belongs to a different school of magic. So the uh, the gauntlet that you found, which can summon huge bouts of flame and, you know, was— was mainly based around destruction was from the Evocation school of magic. So that one was dealt with, you don’t have to deal with that one. But yeah, each— each of the Relics belongs to a different school of magic, so there’s—


Justin: Alteration.


Griffin: Alteration—


Justin: Illusion.


Griffin: Illusion, Necromancy, uh—


Travis: Accounting.


Griffin: Accounting. Um, Hufflepuff. So like, there’s a lot—


[snickering]


Justin: Air— uh, heat— heat and air repair.


Griffin: Uh-huh.


[laughter]


Griffin: So yeah! There’s, um—


Justin: Medical database entry.


Travis: Mmhm, mmhm.


Justin: I can think of a couple others— give me some time.


Clint: That’s actually a Bureau of Balance Tech.


Griffin: Yeah, at the Technical—


Justin: [laughing] It’s a two-year Bureau of Balance—


[laughter]


Griffin: The Bureau of Balance Community College Technical Institute, yep. Yeah, that’s about all the— the information you’ve gained. It’s been kind of boring! You just haven’t had, like, a lot to do. You’ve done some training, keeping your bodies right, um, but—


Justin: Getting levels or anything?

Griffin: No, I gave you two levels in the last episode now don’t get greedy—


Travis: We gained six levels, we’re now level 10.


Griffin: We can’t spend more of an entire episode just leveling you guys up, so- Um…


Justin: It was a- it was a smash hit though!


Travis: People loved the leveling up.


Griffin: [sarcastically] Yeah, people love mechanics. Um, there’s only one guard standing watch at the hangar, the night shift, the graveyard shift, and it’s your old pal Avi! Who gave you the brandy when you first arrived here.


Justin: Avi!


Griffin: Avi. He’s like:


Avi: Hey guys, what’s up?


Magnus: Avi, I’m real fucked up.


Avi: Oh, dang. What… what happened to this guy?


Merle: Oh, hair of the dog that bit him.


Avi: You’re not really supposed to, like, get on one of these if you’re… I mean, I won’t tell—


Magnus: I’ll be fiiiiiine!


[laughter]


Avi: Okay… You kinda sound like, uh, some kind of wolf-man.


Magnus: It’s totally coooool, duuuuude.


Avi: Hey, why are you, why is it whisper time now?


Magnus: Shhhhh… Shhh… Shh.


Avi: Okay, uh, do you guys—


Magnus: [whispering] Avi… Avi… Avi… Avi…


Avi: Uh, yeah?


[pause.]


Magnus: [whispering] You’re great.


Avi: Ha ha, thank you! Yes, thank you.


Merle: You’re his best friend!


Avi: I think you guys are pretty—


Magnus: [still whispering] I really, I think you’re… a cool duuuude.


Avi: Yeahhh.


[laughter]


Magnus: [intensely whispering] Avi!


Avi: Yeah?


Magnus: Do you wanna go on a mission?

Avi: I can’t. I’m not… I can’t. It’s my job to—


Magnus: Okay, we’ll meet you down there.


Avi: Well, I won’t be able to—


Magnus: Avi! Be cool for two seconds.


Avi: I think I’m being pretty cool.


Magnus: Just… Avi!


Avi: Yep?


Magnus: Shh shh shh shh… be cool for two seconds.


[Justin completely loses it]


Avi: Okay.


Magnus: [still whispering] We’ll see you down there.


Av:i: I wo—


Magnus: Don’t, shhh… Avi? It’s a secret mission. Shh shh shh shh shh shhhhh. We’ll see you down there. [high-pitched] Wink! [pause] Wink! You’re a cool dude.


[Justin and Clint dying of laughter]


Justin: Can I get clarification? Did he just wink or, say “wink” out loud?


Magnus: [still whispering] Both.


[More laughter and coughing]


Merle: He’ll be okay, we got him, we got him.


Avi: It seems like you’re having a great time. I would wink back but I can’t, um… never learned how! Uhhm. No, I -


Taako: Do you have any of that brandy we could take with us though?

Avi: No, it’s like, it’s like three in the morning, I’m actually gonna cut you guys off, um.


Magnus: YOU’RE CUT OFF!


Avi: I don’t— You don’t have to go home, but you can’t stay here because I’m about to fire you out of a cannon. Um, uh, have you guys used one of these before, is this your first time, getting, uh… getting shot? Getting blasted?


Merle: Well obviously we’ve been blasted before.


Avi: Yeah, clearly.


Taako: No cannons though.


Merle: No cannons!


Avi: Okay! Well it’s, uh, it’s pretty easy, guys! Just, uh, pop- pop in—


Travis: Magnus gets in.


Griffin: Avi taps on the sphere to open the door, somehow Magnus got in before the door was open.


[Clint laughs.]


Griffin: Uh, it’s the same type of sphere that you guys came into the Bureau of Balance on. It is a Volkswagen-sized glass ball with heavy brass fittings all around.


Travis: Are we talking like Jetta, Beetle, like a van? What kind of Volkswagen?


Griffin: Like a Golf. Volkswagen Golf. Um.


Travis: Okay, thank you.


Griffin: And, uh, yeah, taps on it, same sort of situation, four chairs with straps for- for you to lock in on, um, and uhhh- yep!


Travis: Magnus sits down and immediately falls asleep.


Clint: I get the extra chair!


Griffin: You get the extra chair, like, you’re gonna recline one and lean back?


Clint: Nah, let’s let him lay down in two chairs.


Griffin: Okay. He actually, Avi says:


Avi: Ooh, careful man, if you do that, you’ll definitely die.



Magnus: Shhhhh, sh sh shh [continues shushing for a while]



Merle: It’s okay, let him…


Avi: Okay, it’ll be kind of a weird way for his character to be, uh, written out of the story but—



Merle: I’ll buckle him in on both seats.


Taako: Why is this a thing? Can we just get in the fucking cannon or what? [Clint laughs] Put him in a seat and—


Magnus: Avi, be cool!


Merle: Taako wants action!


Taako: I want out! Of this place!


Griffin: Okay. So there is one seat that is something of the… uh— captain’s seat, which somebody will need to be in charge of. There’s no—


Magnus: I got it!



Merle: No! No, man. Don’t drink and drive.  Don’t drink potions and drive.


Griffin: Who wants to be in charge of, uh, the landing of this—



Merle: Taako!



Taako: Mmmmmm…


        Merle: Get up there, big boy!


Taako: Well, I mean okay, my intelligence and dexterity are both pretty good, I guess— I guess it makes sense. I’ll, uh, I’ll take- I’ll take the reins!


Griffin: Okay, um, Avi says:


Avi: Well, there’s not really reins to speak of, uh, you’re gonna wanna sit in this um, this front left chair, and uh, there’s a handle that you’re gonna feel. You feel it, on the left side?


Taako: Yeah, right there.


Merle: He’s feeling his handle.


Griffin: Dad!


Clint: What?


Taako: Yuck-o, moving on.


Travis: I get it!


Taako: I’ve got the- I’ve got the totally non-sexual handle. What’s next?


Griffin: He says, uh,


        Avi: Before— this is super important -


        Taako: Mmhm?


        Avi: Before… this thing hits the ground-


Clint: And then the door shuts.


[Laughter.]


Griffin: Okay, the door shuts.


Avi: [very fast, muffled through the door] Before it hits the ground you gotta pull the handle! Pull the totally non-sexual handle right before it hits the ground! Or else you’ll go bang. Okay bye!


Taako: Got it!


Merle: Who was that?


Taako: [laughing] Probably Avi!


Merle: Okay, kick it! Floor it!


Griffin: As soon as the door shuts, uh, a large tube pops out slowly ascends from the ground.


[Travis/Magnus giggle.]


Clint: Hey! How come Griff— T- Travis can get away with it?!


Griffin: Uh, the sphere—


Travis: That was in character, Dad!


Griffin: The three of you are loaded on, on top of the, uh… the departure gate rolls forward into the tube, and a hatch behind you slams shut—


Travis: And then we sit in the tube for 30 minutes while they check something on the- on the sphere.


Griffin: Yeah, they de-ice the tube, uh, for a long time.  It’s completely pitch black, there’s- there’s no light whatsoever, um… until you- you feel this- this tube that you’re in start to descend-


[Travis snickering, Clint singing that boat song from Charlie and the Chocolate Factory softly in the background.]


Griffin: What, what is it about the word tube, Travis?


Travis: It’s a funny word-


Griffin: Because it doesn’t even seem remotely— like, Fallopian tubes? Is that what you’re having a ROFL about?


Travis: No, it’s just a funny word, Griffin.


Griffin: Uh, it descends, you feel it descend, and then you see a small, uh, like, uh, pinpoint of light in front of you. Uh…


Travis: Like an aperture?



Griffin: And you hear a voice say, uh:


Announcer: [muffled, slightly echoed] Please put your head flush with the back of the chair so you don’t break— any of your neck bones! [awkwardly] I’m the— flight safety person, and good luck.


[laughter]


Travis: “This is a pre-recorded message and the best take we could get!”


[explosive laughter]


Clint: I heard him say “flush.”


Announcer: Departure in 3, 2, 1…


Justin: What?


Announcer: Oh, sorry, did you—sorry, [Justin laughing] the audio quality’s not great ‘cause it’s like fantasy, but, um, I said—


Clint: I want a large fries—


Announcer: No, It’s not- 3 2 1 byyyye!

Griffin: Uh, and the three of you are flung forward at a velocity that you previously may have considered unsurvivable.


Travis: Magnus’ neck breaks and he dies.


[laughter]


Griffin: Uhhm. Magnus, are you actually laying between two chairs, or are you—?


Magnus: No, I’m sitting up like a big boy.


Griffin: M’kay. Uh, that’s, yes- uh, and this experience is especially exhilarating for you. It’s basically the ending of 2001: A Space Odyssey because you guys are basically flying, but you’re actually just falling very, very quickly, in a very specific direction.


Travis: Would you say it is a sobering experience?



Griffin: Uh… yeah, I would say so. [amused] It’s a— if only you could open up a window and get some fresh air on your face. Uh, yeah, I would say the effects of this potion, uh, while potent, are not especially long-lasting. It’s basically salvia. The salvia of, uh, of potions.



Travis: Got it.


Griffin: Dad, salvia was a legal drug, um, that you were allowed to take for a long time that would make you… basically teleport but for, like, 15 minutes. I read about it in Rolling Stone.


Clint: I was gonna say, yeah— this is you telling my character, not you telling your father.


Griffin: No, yeah, and again, I’m saying: I read about it in Rolling Stone.


Clint: Sure.


Justin: Even “drug” is a stretch. It was from the earth.


Griffin: Yeah, it was—


Travis: It was like a blueberry or a potato.


Griffin: It was a kind- kind, kind bud.


Clint: But you three all have this knowledge from your reading.


[crosstalk of the brothers all agreeing it was from Rolling Stone]


Justin: Like Travis said, it’s like a blueberry or like a heroin plant.


[laughter]


[{32:51-44:18} Max Fun Drive break]


Griffin: The three of you aren’t falling so much, uh, as you are— y- you weren’t shot out of this cannon straight down. Um, rather, you were shot at kind of a- a steep angle. You’re almost going forwards more than you’re going down. Um, and it’s kind of beautiful. The- the sun is rising over the Teeth, uh, which is a towering mountain range that runs over a long [with a lisp] isthmus— I am incapable of saying that word. Is isth— —is isthmus the one that’s like a strip of land connecting two bigger pieces of land?


Clint: Yes.


Justin: Yeah.


Griffin: Okay.


Clint: Like the [exaggerated lisp] Isthmus of Panama.


Griffin: Right.


Travis: You can say Christmas; why is this hard?


[chuckle]


Justin: Or “land bridge.”


Griffin: [laughing] It’s the ongoing war on Isthmus. You’re flying over the Teeth. It’s it’s- it’s beautiful, it’s uh, it is the scariest imaginable way to travel, but it is not, uh, without its benefits because you get a full 360 degree panoramic view of the, uh, of the world around you. And, so you’re flying over the— over the Teeth when you reach the end of the range, when you finally start to descend. Um, again it’s just so beautiful, you are flying over a flock of- of Pegasuses, Pegasi—


Clint: Aww.


[laughter]


Griffin: Um. And you’re actually getting really close to them as you’re descending—


Taako: I pull the handle.


Griffin: —and you’re just going so fast—


Justin: I pull the handle.


Griffin: Uh, you pull the handle—


Justin: That was intoxicating though. For a second I was just, like, staring at it like, “Let’s just let it end.”


[Travis laughs]


Griffin: Okay, you pull the handle. You’re still about, um—


Justin: Got a good nine episodes.


Griffin: You’re still about uhh—


Travis: It’s been a good run. We all hold hands.


Griffin: You’re still about a mile off the ground, um, and you pull the handle right actually right before you were about to collide with this flock of, uh, of Pegasi.


Clint: Seagulls.


Griffin: Uh, no, pega- pegasuses. You pull the handle and your, uh, sphere is encased in a silvery light, and your descent starts to slow down, uh, right actually as you get into this flock of Pegasi. Uh, you haven’t,  uh… you didn’t obliterate any of them with your trajectory.


Travis: Aww.


Griffin: You have slowed down. However, you are now spending a lot of time being caught in this flock, uh, and they are panicked. A few of them run into the, uh, the glass chamber, and by the time you get out of this swarm of beautiful winged horses, your trajectory—


Travis: They’re just pooping everywhere.


Clint: We are covered in Pega-shit.


Griffin: Uh, you are covered in Pega-shit, and your trajectory has changed pretty wildly.


Travis: [sarcastically] Well, super cool, DM!


[someone snorts]


Griffin: What?


Travis: Well, we’re supposed to get on a train, and you’ve ruined it with your storytelling!


Griffin: I didn’t tell you to pull the handle! Your uh, your trajectory is changed pretty wildly. You are— you’ve basically turned about 90 degrees to the left in the direction that you were originally headed away from a lush, soft, green pasture outside of the town of Rockport, which you can see the, uh, the lights of below. You are moving away from that destination and into a thickly wooded area.


Travis: Super cool.


Griffin: Um, uh— just by triangulating you’re guessing it’s a few miles outside of uh, of Rockport.


[Someone makes a cartoony, whistling falling sound]


Griffin: Uh, and as you pierce through the top layer- the canopy of these woods and look down, you realize, just as you land that you are in a swamp.


Travis: “You’ve realized just as you land that you’ve never truly loved anyone.”


[Clint laughs]


Griffin: Uh, no, it’s uh, it’s not a crash landing. It is- it is a soft landing, but you have landed in the mucky… mire of a swamp. You are strapped in. You’re actually kind of face down, you’re facing down, so you’re strapped in, sort of hanging, uh, from the chairs looking down at this swamp. And, uh, that is where you are.


Travis: Okay.


Griffin: Um—


Justin: Do we see—is there anything we can see other than swamp?


Clint: Muck. Just muck.


Justin: Landmarks or anything?


Griffin: No. It is a- -there are a lot of trees around that are sort of blocking your vision. The only thing you can see is the mucky water below, which your sphere is kinda starting to sink into.


Clint: Okay.


Justin: Okay.


Clint: Now where’s the door? Is it in front of us, on the muck side? Do we need to roll the sphere backwards or something?


Griffin: The door is face down, in the muck. The door is, uh, submerged. It’s still closed; the muck water’s not getting in. Um—


Clint: I would like to take a “throw ourselves backwards so it rolls out the muck and the door is free” roll.


Griffin: [amused] That’s a— that was a lot of things. That was a lot of concepts, uh, that you have—


Clint: Well, then just give it to us.


Travis: How mad would they be— how mad would the Bureau be if I just smashed this thing? Do they have more of them? Is this the only sphere they’ve got?


Griffin: Uh—


Clint: Smash, smash, smash.


Griffin: —you saw several of these spheres in the hanger, so… Yes. They have more of them.


Clint: I like my “roll it backwards and free the door” idea, but…


Travis: Sure, go for that.


Griffin: Mmkay.


Justin: Yeah, try it.


[Clint makes a struggling noise, Travis laughs]


Griffin: Are you going to try and do it while you’re still strapped into these chairs hanging from the ceiling? ‘Cause it might be hard to get leverage.


Clint: Well, I think that would— Well, all right, let’s unstrap, and then push against the sides so we can begin the sphere rolling until the door is free.


Griffin: Mmkay.


Justin: Okay.


Griffin: By- by the time that the three of you get unstrapped without, you know, landing on each other comically, uh, the sphere is about one-third submerged in the— in the goo.


Clint: Okay.


Griffin: What’s your approach gonna be? Are you trying to just basically hamster ball this?


Clint: Yeah! Yeah, that’s what I was thinking.


Griffin: Mmkay.


Justin: It’s like sinking though, right? There’s nothing solid below us. Are we sinking?


Griffin: Uh, yeah.


Justin: Okay, we’re not going to be able to roll it without sinking.


Clint: Oh, sure! Yeah.


Taako: I’m getting out. I climb out of the door and leave.


Travis: Uh, the door—


Griffin: The door is underwater.


Travis: Okay.


Taako: What?


Merle: You’re gonna kill us!


Griffin: The door is under goo.


Travis: Wait, I saw this on Mythbusters. [Clint laughs] We have to wait until it’s completely submerged, and then the pressure equalizes, we can open the door, swim out.


Griffin: Uh, the swamp that you are sinking into is not water. It is- it is a viscous sort of, uh, almost quicksand-like goo.


Justin: How heavy would you say the orb is?


Griffin: It is the, the dimensions and weight of a Volkswagen Golf.


Clint: Hmm.


Travis: Okay, I smash through the side of it.


Griffin: Okay. Goddammit.


Travis: What?


Griffin: Somebody’s, like, mowing their lawn, like, right outside my door.


Travis: [laughing] Oh, I thought I’d made a choice and you were like, “Well, fuck. You really backed me into a corner, Travis.”


Griffin: Okay! Uh, with uh, your axe?


Travis: With my Phantom Fist. I’m gonna punch through.


Griffin: Okay. Using your, uh… heavy plate gauntlet Phantom Fist, which you purchased in the last episode, you rear back and punch forward. As you do, a larger spectral hand sort of wraps itself around your own and helps you in this endeavor, and you smash through the  glass a couple feet above the waterline of- of the uh, goo. And you have successfully made a hole that is big enough for the three of you to fit through. Not all at once- that would be hilarious. Uh, but the three of you can get through this hole that you’ve created.


Travis: We do that.


Taako: Fully.


Griffin: Uh, okay, the three of you fully get through, uh, the door- well, by door I mean “makeshift hole that you have just blasted in the side of this thing,” and have made it out onto the swamp. It is very, very tricky terrain. Um, one might even call it “difficult terrain.” It’s hard to keep your footing, and it’s hard to sort of keep yourself moving so you don’t also, uh, get glorped down.


Travis: Don’t my magic jumping boots, like, help me in difficult terrain? Am I making that up?


Griffin: Yeah, I think you’re making it up.


Travis: Mm…


Griffin: Mm?


[Justin laughs]


Griffin: I guess it’s open to debate, but I think—


Travis: If only this game were made of everyone making stuff up, huh? [Clint laughs] Anyways.


Griffin: Uh, you, uh— yeah. So the three of you have made it out. The sphere is almost totally submerged. Um—


Travis: Oh, I left my wallet in there!


Taako: Would—what if I were to do like, um—if I were to use the Ray of Frost, could I freeze the swamp around it? Would that work?


Griffin: Yeah, it’s worth a shot.


Taako: We got a thing going here?


Griffin: Yeah yeah, let’s see what happens.


Merle: Maybe the blue ring would help him too.


Taako: That’s a frost resistance ring.


Merle: Well, yeah, but it ices beverages.


Taako: It helps me, uh —


Griffin: A swamp is not a beverage. I’m just going to go ahead and cut— cut you off at the pass there, Dad. Swamps aren’t drinkable.


Taako: Swamps aren’t beverages.


Clint: Well, don’t force your- [laughing] your choices on me!


[laughter]


Justin: Hey, old man! My daddy can drink any swamp he wants.


[Clint laughs]


Justin: [trying to do Taako’s voice at first] Uh, okay, I’ll cast, uh, Ray of Frost to try to um, to try— sorry, like, morphed back into Justin because I’m not saying out loud what I’m doing. I’m gonna cast ring of frost, Ray of Frost, uh, on the- sort of the, like, swamp around the ball to try to halt its sinkage.


Griffin: Uh, okay, yeah, you do that. You uh, you sort of do a quick circle of Ray of Frost around the sphere, and you have managed to freeze at least the top part of the swamp which has managed to halt the descent of your, uh, of your sphere.


Justin: Okay, okay, listen, listen. We need to get busy here. I don’t have— I don’t have any magic that can help point us in the direction that we need to go- We’re trying to catch a train, right?


Griffin: Yes. Um, yeah.


Justin: Okay.



Taako: I don’t have a—none of my spells sort of leap to mind that would be, uh, helpful to us. Um—


Griffin: Your uh—


Taako: Tasha’s Hideous Laughter, nothing. You guys have any, like, spells, or abilities? Can I do a perception check to see if I can- can sense any, like, train-like activities?


Griffin: Uh, can you do— sorry? A perception check to see if you sense any “train-like” abilities…?


Justin: [laughing] I mean, like, a distant floodlamp, or perhaps, a place where tracks used to be but aren’t right now.


Travis: This is a solid, solid puzzle.


Griffin: Yeah, that is some solid dungeoneering, is what that is.


Justin: Good news, I got a one.


[laughter]


Griffin: So you failed on your— you critically failed, on your, uh—


Travis: So you just go, “What’s a train?”


Travis: But we— we know the direction, we could—


Justin: I fall over and start shoveling swamp into my mouth. [laughs]


Clint: Do we have a map or anything?


Travis: We could see Rockport when when we landed, like we have a general idea—


Griffin: The three of you, the three of you— I’m gonna set the scene. The three of you are standing in swamp water, just sort of stomping around to keep yourself from sinking. Uh, you have frozen the swamp around the sphere… Um, as the three of you are debating furiously about what trains could possibly be close to you, uh, you hear kind of a… goopy sound coming from above you, in the uh, the canopy of the trees above. And, uh… you hear a goopy sound.


Travis: Okay.


Justin: A goopy sound?


Griffin: Yeah, kind of like a [making wet noises with his mouth]


Travis: Oh, great.


Justin: [laughing] Okay, can I do a, uh, can I do a perception check to see if any, like—


Travis: Let’s all do a perception check. I got a 16.


Justin: I got a… 13.


Travis: Oh, I got 15, ‘cause I have a minus one perception.


Clint: Fourteen.


Griffin: Okay. Magnus, you, uh, you see, just for a flash of a second - uh, a, uhhh… green, slimy eyestalk, popping out of the canopy of the largest tree above. Um, and as soon as you sort of make eye contact with it, it zips back up into the tree.


Magnus: Hello! Wha— Do you know where the train is?



Griffin: Magnus, actually, as you yell at it to try and um, negotiate or get some information, um, the eyestalk pops back out. And then further down the branch, another eyestalk pops out. And then from a hole in the tree another eyestalk pops out.


Magnus: What up?


Griffin: Um, and slowly from those three positions you see, uh, begin to climb out, these dark green… leeches begin to come out of the tree. The ones on the branches are descending towards you on strings of goo and plop down on the surface of the swamp next to you. The one coming out of the tree has made it down to the base of the tree. And the- the one that just came down off the tree, the biggest one, rears back and opens a mouth lined with three rows of razor-sharp teeth, and it begins hissing at you.


Magnus: Hello!


Griffin: Uh, and it’s, uh-


Magnus: So, I was asking about a train?


Griffin: [Chuckles] Uh, and it is, uh, it’s initiative time.


[pause]


Griffin: …do you guys remember battles?


Travis: I’ve heard of them.


Justin: Five.


Travis: Uh, 10.


Clint: Twenty.


Griffin: Wow. Top of the order is Merle! Uh you are on difficult terrain, which means that your movement speed is going to be halved. The leeches are… basically lined up in a row in front of you, they all came down off the same tree. Uh and they are- they’re close; they’re about 10 feet away.


Clint: Alright, I wanna cast Thorn Whip at them.


Griffin: What is that? I ha— I have no idea what you’re talking about.


Clint: Alright. [Travis laughs] “You create a long, vine-like whip covered in thorns that lashes out at your command towards a creature in range. You make a melee spell attack against the target, if the attack hits, the creature takes 1d6 piercing damage, and if the creature is large or smaller, you pull the creature up to 10 feet closer to you.”


Griffin: Okay. Is this a spell, wh— is this a second level spell?


Clint: This is one of the cantrips that was granted to me when I switched over.


Griffin: [crosstalk] Oh, oh, oh, I see, cool. Okay. Alright, sweet! Whip away.


Clint: Fifteen.


Griffin: Fifteen, is that just what you rolled?


Clint: That’s what I rolled.


Griffin: And then you have your spellcasting modifier and you have plus one because you have your Extreme Teen Bible now.


Clint: Ah, so… plus five!


Griffin: I think it was plus five before, so it should be plus six with your Teen Bible, so 21.


Clint: So, 21.


Griffin: Uh yeah, that’s a hit.


Clint: Right, and then I roll a d6?


Griffin: Mhm.


Clint: …It’s a six! Perfect.


Travis: Magnus yells,


Magnus: Don’t move ‘em!


Griffin: Okay. Um… Wait, do you have to move ‘em?


Clint: Doesn’t have to, uh-uh.


Griffin: Mmkay. Cool. Yeah, you, uh, you have whipped him. You whipped him good.


[Travis and Clint laugh]


Griffin: Uh, are you done—?


Justin: How many, like, little things are poking out? Like—


Griffin: There are 3 leeches.


Justin: Okay. So which one did he just, uh, whip?


Clint: The one in the middle.


Griffin: The one in the middle? The one that came down off the branch?


Clint: Yeah.


Griffin & Justin: Okay.


Griffin: Um, are you done with your turn?


Clint: Um, I think so.


Griffin: Okay. Uh, you sink into the swamp to about your waist.


Travis: Good luck.


Griffin: Next in the order is Magnus.


Clint: Do we know how much damage we did to him?


Griffin: Uh, six damage, you said it out loud with your mouth.


Clint: Oh, okay.


[Justin chuckles]


Travis: Um… I’m going to run over to the tree, or move to the tree they came down off of?


Griffin: Mmkay.


Travis: And I’m going to use Railsplitter to fell it so it fallxs over on top of all three of them.


Griffin: [amused] Okay, awesome. Uh… yeah, you, uh— distribute a devastating chop to the base of the tree that the three of them came down on, angled in a manner to make it sort of slide off in their direction. You give it the old Bushido Blade. It’s almost like—


Justin: I think it’s pronounced “Buscemi Blade.”


[laughter]


Griffin: You give the old Buscemi Blade. It’s like you didn’t— it’s like you felt nothing as you went through. It was almost like you were, uh, chopping through a curtain or something.


[rustling noises]


Justin: Sorry, I need to mute our mic. Dad has decided to take this opportunity to enjoy a popcorn snack.


[Travis laughs]


Clint: [quietly] Sorry.


Griffin: Oh, wow! So, literally, the worst possible audible thing.


[Justin laughs]


Clint: I put it down.


Griffin: Please don’t eat a popcorn snack. You—


Justin: I was actually looking forward to enjoying the popcorn snack with you, so I’m a little sad about pointing it out.


Griffin: Well, maybe like, during a break. Um, you— no, it’s not like we couldn’t tell that you weren’t eating a goddamn popcorn snack. It was like you were breakdancing on—


Clint: Really? How do you know this was my first bag?


Griffin: Travis is doing some dope shit, if you guys would allow him.


Travis: Thank you!



Clint: Yeah, yeah…


Griffin: Um… the Railsplitter passes through the tree like a, like a baseball bat passing through a ghost.


[laughter]


Griffin: Um, and the tree slides off of the base. It begins to fall in a straight line towards the leeches. And they are going to make dexterity saving throws to try and get out of the way.The first one, the one at the base closest to the tree, rolled a two, which is a five, that’s not gonna do it. The one in the middle that just got attacked, got a 19, that will do it. He uh, darts forward towards you. Um, uh— I’m assuming, Travis, that you ran over to the base of the tree to make this happen?


Travis: Yes.


Griffin: Okay.


Travis: I- I stated that.


Griffin: Mmkay. Um, and the third one rolls an 18, which is sufficient. He darts forward too. But the tree falls to the side, and just completely obliterates the, uh, the leech that was closest to the base, the one that was actually right next to you, Magnus.


[crunching noises]


Griffin: Did someone eat popcorn?


Clint: Dang, he’s good!


Griffin: Yeah, I’m really good. Uh, so you have destroyed one of these leeches. Uh, there’s two left.


Travis: Uh, and I’m going—


Justin: I just wanna say, like, this is the first D and— I appreciate that this is a podcast. This is the first DnD, in history, where someone has not been able to enjoy a salty snack.


Travis: Yeah.


[Griffin laughs]


Clint: Yeah, really.


Justin: Like, never— like, the two shouldn’t even- -it should be in the fuckin’ Player’s Handbook. Like, “Be sure to get your salty snack to enjoy as you play DnD.”


Clint: Re- realism is just blown all to hell right now.


Justin: Yeah!


Clint: Sorry, but I feel that way.


Justin: I feel like I’m working— I feel like I’m preparing my taxes. That’s what DnD is without salty snacks.


[Clint laughs]


Justin: There. I got that off of my chest.


Griffin: Well— we’ll need to come up with some sort of a, like a, one of those booths that they have at carnivals, where the money blows around?


[crunching noise]


Justin: Listen to Rosa Crunch over here!


[wheezing laughter]


Griffin: Listen to who?


Justin: Rosa Crunch! He’s not going to the back of the snack bus!


Travis: Well, you know she wasn’t called Rosa Van, right, Justin?


Griffin: She wasn’t called Rosa Bus. What’re you talking about?


Justin: [laughing] He’s just gonna keep crunching.


Clint: Go ahead, move me! [crunching continues for the rest of the podcast]


Travis: I’m gonna step up on- I’m gonna step up onto the stump.


Griffin: Mmkay, you’re stumping.


Justin: Well, that’s a good idea.


Griffin: This podcast is an auditory nightmare hellscape.


[laughter]


Justin: Thanks for the money, though.

Griffin: Previously on The Adventure Zone:


Director: One of our reclaimers, a brave soldier named Leeman Kessler, was murdered in the city of Rockport. He had just managed to locate and retrieve one of the grand relics. Uh, he managed to secure passage on this train, loaded his cargo onto the train, so all three of you can board. But one of you will need to be Leeman Kessler. Retrieve the relic and get it back to us, any way that you can.


Magnus: [Whispering] Avi! Shh shh shhh. Be cool for two seconds.


[Laughter]


Avi: Okay.


Griffin: You pull the handle, and your descent starts to slow down. You realize, just as you land that you are in a swamp. These dark green leeches begin to come out of the tree.


Travis: I’m going to run over to the tree, and I’m going to use Railsplitter to fell it so it falls over on top of all three of them.


Griffin: Okay, awesome. Uh, but the tree falls to the side and just completely obliterates the leech that was closest to the base, the one that was actually right next to you, Magnus.


[Crunching noise]


Justin: Listen to Rosa Crunch over here!


[Laughter]


Announcer: Are you a Max Fun Drive donor, or a Max Fun Drive boner? Time to make up your mind as you enter The Adventure Zone!


[Theme music: Déjà Vu by Mort Garson]


{1:53}


Travis: [Imitating theme music] Do do doo do do doo… Is that the music?


Griffin: Yeah, you— good work, Travis.


Clint: What is that music by the way? That’s beautiful.


Travis: I wrote it with my mouth.


Griffin: It’s Travis—


Travis: Do do doo do do doo…


Griffin: The opening theme to the Adventure Zone is just Travis doing a capella.


Clint: Wow.


Griffin: One leech down. Next in the order is actually the leeches. Uh, they, the two of them are, uh—


Travis: [Laughs] The two of them mourn their fallen friend; they lose a turn.


[Clint laughs]


Griffin: They’re about 5 feet apart, um—


Travis: “No, Steven!”


Griffin: —uh, in front of the felled tree. Um, one of them scooches over towards Magnus. And one of them scooches over toward Merle. Magnus the, uh, the leech that has moved over towards you doesn’t actually lunge forward and attack. It actually rears back and opens up that hideous Sarlacc-like mouth. Uh, you see it’s haunting glottis part—


Travis: Mhm.


Griffin: —in the back of its throat, and it tries to spray you with a stinky, yellow fluid. Um, and you are going to need to make a dexterity saving throw to, uh, prevent—


Travis: How do I— how do I do that? Just roll a d20?


Griffin: Roll a d20 and add your dex.


Travis: That is 17.


Griffin: Seventeen, okay. Yeah, you dodge out of the way of this stinky, yellow, uh, fluid. Uh, it lands with a splash in the swamp.


Magnus: Guys, look out for their glottis!


Griffin: Merle, the injured one that you hit with the thorn whip has moved over to you. You are waist-deep in the muck. You sank down during your last turn. Uh, it does rear back and attacks you, and it gets a 19 versus your AC.


Travis: I’m gonna use my, uh, defender thing.



Griffin: You are not next to Dad, so you cannot. You have to be within 5 feet.


Travis: Do I?


Griffin: Yeeesss.


Travis: You are correct.


Clint: I am going to—


Griffin: You basically— In order to use that, Travis, you have to be, like—


Travis: Right next to them.


Griffin: —fight— fighting in melee with the same person.


Travis: Sorry, I thought it was someone I could see. It’s been awhile since we fought anything.


Griffin: Yeah, ‘cause you’re not Captain America; you can’t, like, chuck your shield in front of them.


Travis: I look forward to getting that ability later on whenever the D— DM deems it appropriate.


Griffin: Well, I gave you an instant chop down tree axe in the last episode, so.


Justin: A chance at getting that axe.


Travis: Griffin, when we started that last episode, I was in my head, going, “I hope Griffin puts me near a tree.” Even if it’s just, like, walking down a road, there’s a tree, Magnus chops it.


Griffin: Yeah. Uh, Merle, what’re you gonna— do you have something to prevent this attack?


Clint: Mm…


Griffin: ‘Cause you said you were gonna do something.


Clint: Yeah, I thought it was my turn.


Griffin: No, it’s the leech’s turn, and he has, uh, bitten you for ooh, damn— nine damage.


Clint: Hmm.


Travis: Wait, did the leech roll to attack?


Griffin: Yeah.


Clint: I don’t get a chance to evade?


Griffin: He rolled a 19 against your AC— God, it has been a while since we done a battle, huh?


Travis: What am DnD?!


Griffin: Uh, yeah, he rolled a 19 against your AC. What’s your AC?


Clint: Eighteen.


Griffin: Yep, so he hits. He rolled a nine for the damage, um, and he doesn’t just bite you, he bites you and—


Travis: He bites you and empties out your bank account.


Justin: [Laughs] He bites you and steals your identity.


[Travis laughs]


Griffin: He empties out your blood account, a little bit. He, uh, he latches on there, and he gets, uh, he gets a good pint and a half of your blood out of you. And uh—


Justin: [Crosstalk] That’s ridiculous. You don’t know how much a pint is. That doesn’t make any sense.


Travis: [Crosstalk] That’s a lot— Griffin, that’s a lot of blood.


Justin: You just— that’s three cups of blood.


Merle: Hey, I’m fine. Don’t worry about me!


Justin: He drank three cups of blood?


Merle: I can spare it; I’m all right. Now I’m pissed now.


Travis: [Laughing] Wait, you can spare it? Did Merle have a lot of extra blood we don’t know about?


Justin: And there’s the time expended! Did he just say, “Well, he’s gonna be at that for a while. I’m gonna go have a lie down. Try to find some Little Debbie’s.”


Griffin: No, he basically just shotgunned Dad. He basically just shotgunned Merle. Um, yeah he got, I’m gonna stick with it, pint and a half. Suck that right out of you—


[Laughter]



Griffin: —and when he uh, when he detaches, he actually looks a little bit heartier than he did just— just before—


Travis: He’s grown a beard!


Griffin: Now, it is Taako’s turn. Taako Tuesday.



Justin: Uh yeah, how close are those two homies to each other? The two leeches?


Griffin: Uh, they are, they’re about 15 feet away from each other. One is sort of engaged with Magnus, and one just had—


Justin: [Crosstalk] Excellent. That was the exact right number!


Griffin: Okay.


Justin: Uh, I’m gonna cast Thunder Wave.


Griffin: Thunder Wave. What is that now?


Justin: Well, let me tell you about Thunder Wave, Griffin.


Travis: Let me tell you about this new heat.


Clint: [To the tune of Tom Jones’ “Thunderball”] And he strikes, like Thunder Wave…!


Justin: The spell that sounds the most like a afternoon drive, uh, shock jock radio show, Thunder Wave—


Travis: [Like a radio DJ] You got Thunder Wave and the Leech, coming at ya live! Every day, drive at five!


Clint: [Also like a radio DJ] Here at the afternoon zoo! Arooo…!


Griffin: Dad, you’re a little too good at that. [Clint laughs]


Justin: A wave of thunderous force sweeps out from me.


Griffin:  Shit. [Travis laughs]


Justin: “Each creature—” I know. “Each creature in a 15-foot cube, originating from you, must make a constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 2d8 thunder damage and is pushed 10 feet away. On a successful save, it takes half as much damage and isn’t pushed.” *


Griffin: Mmkay, so because they are 15 feet—


Travis: Oh, it hits them no matter what?


Justin: Yeah, I mean, they’re gonna get hit. It’s just about [Travis whistles] how much, whether or not they can cut that damage in half.


Griffin: M’kay. So what am I rolling to prevent this?


Justin: Uh, constitution.


Griffin: M’kay, let me come up with a fake number, ‘cause I didn’t come up with leech constitution, because frankly, Justin, I just didn’t think it was gonna come up.


[Chuckling]


Travis: Well, we see behind the curtain, and it’s messy back there.


Griffin: No, you know what, I’ll roll— I’ll roll a d6; that’s the only fair thing to do. Okay. All right, uh, and I’m just trying to beat your spellcasting? Your— your—


Justin: Yeah.


Griffin: So, it was 13 before, now it’s 14. ‘Cause you got the plus one—


Justin: Correct.


Griffin: Umbra Staff. Okay. Uh, the first one gets an 11, so he’s gonna take it. The other one crits, 20.


Travis: He’s super constituted.


Griffin: Uh, the first one, the first that you hit, the one closest to you, would be the one that just, uh, drained, that just shotgunned Merle.


Justin: So I’m gonna—


Griffin: So he’s the one I guess who’s gonna take the damage.


Justin: So he takes, uh, 11 damage.


Griffin: Holy shit. Okay, he’s bloodied, and some of that blood is Merle’s so you know what’s up.


Justin: And— You always round down?


Griffin: Yeah. The other one is gonna take half damage?


Justin: Yeah, five.


Griffin: That’s a— that’s a good spell.


Travis: Yep.


Justin: Thanks, I’m pretty, pretty partial to it.


Griffin: Okay. Uh, the one that just tried to spray Magnus is not bloodied, um, but he takes the damage. I was considering making it so that the electricity would actually shock Merle a little bit, but I think we’ve established this is not water per se, and I don’t think that it would conduct.


Travis: Plus, Griffin, thunder is not electricity. Lightning is electricity.


Griffin: Well, scientists still have yet to— [Clint laughs] Kinda like global warming how like nobody’s, like, figured out if that’s really a thing yet.


Travis: Mhm.


Justin: Right.


Griffin: People are still kinda confused about which one is thunder and which one is lightning. [Travis laughs] Um. And which— Are they both pushed?


Justin: The full damage one gets pushed 10 feet, the other one is not pushed.


Clint: Do you get to choose which direction?


Justin: I would think— and this just like me pulling this out of my ass, but— I would think it would be in a line from me to them.


Griffin: [Crosstalk] Away from—


Justin: Yeah.


Griffin: Okay. Um, okay. The leech that you hit for full damage, the one that was, uh, having a Dad snack, goes flying back 10 feet, lands relatively close to the other leech. You basically just blasted it right next to Magnus on the stump. So you got the two leeches by the stump with Magnus on top of it.


Travis: Is the tree close enough to them, Ditto, that they can, like— that Merle and Taako could like grab it and stop sinking?


Griffin: Uhh, no, it’s— I mean it’s a good 15 feet away.


Travis: Oh, okay.


Griffin: Um, next in the order is Merle. Merle, you are waist-deep in muck, uh, which obviously you are not going to be able to move until you remedy that.


Travis: And your arm feels really cold.


Griffin: Why is that?


Travis: That’s what happens when you donate blood.


Griffin: Oh, okay. Yeah, you haven’t had your orange juice and graham crackers yet.


Clint: [Crosstalk] Yeah, do I get cookies?


Griffin: No.


Travis: Yeah, the leech bites you and then goes, “Here you go!”


Griffin: “Here you go, buddy.”


Travis: “Enjoy these peanut butter cookies I made! I’m a leech! Leech leech leech.”


Clint: I’m going to cast something that I think will be good for all three of us.


Griffin: Okay.


Travis: [Laughing] It’s a Godspell!


Clint: [Crosstalk] ‘Cause that’s my nature. I’m gonna cast Tenser’s Floating Disk. *


Griffin: Are you sure that— This— this sounds like a wizard’s spell.


Clint: I have changed my mind about what I’m going to do.


Travis: [Laughing] Okay.


Griffin: Yeah, I was about to say, that sounds like some Harry Potter-ass shit.


Clint: [Whining] It’s first level!


Griffin: Yeah, but it’s wizards.


Clint: I shall cast Flame Blade*, which is on my list. Um, which one of them is the most damaged? Which one of the leeches?


Griffin: Uh, they are— There’s a bloodied one. They’re— they’re both relatively in the same location. Is this a second level spell?


Clint: Yes it is.


Griffin: ‘Kay.


Clint: Second level evocation. “You evoke a fiery blade in your free hand.” Travis is gonna be so jealous. “The blade is similar in size and shape to a scimitar.”


Travis: Aw, man!


Griffin: How’re you— so just another rule clarification. I’m assuming that you make a melee attack with this flaming scimitar?


Clint: Yes, a melee spell attack with the fiery blade.


Griffin: Yeah, you— you are not in melee range of these guys. You are, you are sunk half, waist-deep in the muck, and they are, like, about 15 feet away from you.


Clint: M’kay.


Griffin: I hate to keep saltin’ your game, Daddy, but you gotta do—


Clint: “C’mon, Dad, let’s do a DnD podcast! [Travis laughs] It’ll be a blast!” … I cast Sacred Flame*!


Griffin: Hell yeah. Now, this is a spell that you are legally allowed to cast—


Clint: “Flame-like radiance descends on a creature that you can see within range.” I assume I can see.


Griffin: M’kay.


Travis: Oh no, you had your eyes closed when you cast it!


Griffin: Aw, no, you got swamp jizz in your eyes!


[Travis laughs]


Clint: I’m the only one you keep giving muck updates to, and it’s ‘cause I’m short! It’s all right!


Travis: No, you sank into it!


Griffin: You sank into the goo.


Clint: Yeah, but you said waist-deep.


Griffin: Oh, shit, wait.


Clint: And my waist is only—


Griffin: Retcon! Retcon Alert! Retcon Alert! Griffin forgot something! Retcon Alert!


Clint: Uh huh?


[Justin laughs]


Griffin: Um, Taako, you didn’t move last turn, did you?


Taako: No.


Griffin: You sank waist-deep into the mud as well.


Taako: Yeah, them’s the breaks.


Clint: Mhm.


Griffin: Mmkay.


Clint: Yep, all right.


Griffin: Okay, so both Taako and Merle. You are— you are right, Dad, I was being unfair. Both of you have sunk into the goo.


Clint: Ha ha! Wait.


Griffin: Yeah, you really helped out.


Taako: [Crosstalk] Guys! Guys, bad news. I lost my legs!


[Laughter]


Clint: Uh, they take 1d8 radiant damage.


Griffin: Just one of them, though, right? It’s not in a range.


Clint: Yeah, I wanna hit the bloodied one that gave me the hickey.


Griffin: The bloody one, and he’s making a saving throw?


Clint: He makes a dexterity saving throw.


Griffin: ‘Kay. I actually already gave them a dexterity modifier. Uh, six. Not gon’ do it. Plus one for your, uh, Extreme Teen Bible.


Clint: Wait a minute, give me an eight.


Travis: Well, that’s an automatic zero.


Griffin: If you don’t show up prepared, then you take the zero.


Travis: No No. 2 pencil, eh?


Clint: It’s a one and then a one, ‘cause I have my Extreme Teen Bible.


Griffin: Right. Most scientists and mathematicians agree that that is two.


[Snickering]


Travis: But it can’t be proven!


Griffin: M’kay. Uh, okay, that’s not—


Clint: And I don’t add any modifier to it?


Griffin: Nope.


Clint: Okay.


Griffin: If only you cast that burning sword spell, that sounded dope.


Travis: Yeah, it sounded really cool, you guys.


Clint: W-W-W-W-Wait! Merle says,



Merle: Eat me!


Griffin: Okay. To the heavens?


[Justin laughs]


Griffin: To the— to the unreliable narrator?


Clint: [Crosstalk] To you, DM.


Griffin: [Crosstalk] Fantastic.


Justin: [Crosstalk, amused] He becomes momentarily aware of your existence.


Griffin: Okay. Uh. Is that it for your turn?


Clint: Yeah, I guess!


Griffin: Okay, you have sank completely—


Justin: Back on that popcorn grind, though.


Griffin: Don’t! No popcorn!


Clint: Oh! I’m sorry!


Justin: [Laughing] He got that— he got that two damage off— He got that one sunburn on that leech, it was like, “Ah, time to popcorn out—”


Griffin: [Crosstalk] Time for a little victory popcorn.


Travis: [Crosstalk] Well!


Clint: [Crosstalk] Did I break another rule?


[Justin laughs/cackles]


Griffin: So it’s important for you to know that this is not in punishment for your impunity, but you have sank completely into the slime.


Clint: Uh-huh. Yeah.


Griffin: And uh, you are going to take some poison damage, because you can’t breathe slime.


Clint: Sure. You know, I forgot one birthday, Griffin. I’m so sorry!


[Griffin laughs]


Griffin: Uhh. Go ahead and take seven poison damage.


Clint: Sure, yeah. Okay.


Griffin: Uh. And you are completely submerged in— in, uh, swamp now.


Justin: Can I ask a question? Is the poison damage because he can’t breathe liquid, or is it because the swamp itself is dangerous?


Griffin: Uh, it’s, it is because he can’t breathe poison swamp goo.


Justin: It’s poison swamp goo, so—


Griffin: It is if you breathe it. If you drink it, and you get it in your mouth and you drink it, it’s gonna hurt.


Justin: Okay.


Griffin: Uhh—


Justin: Are there fish? Is there wildlife? I mean, is there aquatic life that’s fine?


Griffin: These leeches don’t seem—


Travis: [Crosstalk] What do we have to do to save the wetlands?


Griffin: Uh, I would be more worried about saving the cleric, at this point. Uhh. [Justin laughs] Next in the order is, uh, Magnus Burnsides.


Travis: Okay.


Griffin: You are safe on your stump. You got a—


Travis: I run down the felled tree to where—


Merle: [Gurgling as if he’s submerged in water] I’m fine, fellas! Don’t worry about me!


Magnus: I’m coming to get you, Magnus! No, you’re Merle.


Merle: [Still gurgling] No! It’s okay! Don’t worry.


Travis: Okay, um, whatever I can do to get me closest to where Merle went down.


Griffin: The tree is not going to be difficult terrain, so you can move down that. Uh, it’ll take you about five feet to get to a point where you can get sort of a straight line to try and run to Merle, but once you get into the swamp it will be difficult terrain, and you won’t have enough movement to get there. Um, so you could try a leap, you could do a Leapin’ Loafers, you could try and, uh, do some Tarzan shit, if you want.


Travis: Oh yeah, wait no, I can leap up to my speed, right?



Justin: We should really be writing this stuff down.


[Clint laughs]


Griffin: The— the Boots of Striding and Springing, or the Leapin’ Loafers, as we have called them, allow you to jump three times your normal distance. So, we’ll say 15 feet.


Travis: Cool. Can I jump from the tree, then? Like, what, can I make it to him that way?


Griffin: Uh, yeah! Yeah, that’ll— You’ll have enough movement to do that. You— you straight up Air Bud that shit.


Travis: Well, before I go—


Griffin: Oh okay.


Travis: I’m gonna tie the rope off to like a branch or something.


Griffin: What rope?


Travis: I got rope. Everybody’s got rope. It’s in my adventurer’s kit.


Griffin: Uh, okay, but that— that’s gonna be your action, homie. If you do that.


Travis: Tying a rope is an action? That’s like, that’s Level 1. This is first day of school shit.


Griffin: No that’s— I mean— [Travis laughs, causing Griffin to laugh a little] Yes, but you are— you are taking the time to do something. That would be considered an action.


Travis: Okay, then I don’t—


Griffin: It’s not like you’re pressing a button or flipping a switch, you’re like—


Travis: Then I don’t tie the rope. Okay?


Griffin: [Laughs] All right.


Travis: I just jump over, because I love Merle so damn much.


Griffin: Mmkay.


Travis: And I reach in and pull him out of the goddamn swamp.


[Thudding noises, spitting, coughing]


Griffin: Uh, well, okay. Again, we’re gonna make some checks ‘cause we’re playing Dungeons and Dragons.


Justin: It’s like Thrilling Adventure Hour in here.


[Squelching noises]


Griffin: Uh, you’re gonna have to make some checks, because that’s how we play Dungeons and Dragons; you don’t just say things and do it, ‘cause it’s a video game. Well, it’s a board game. Scientists have yet to agree. Uh, so you’re gonna plunge your hand into the goo where you think you just saw Merle. Uh, you reach in, you— you get some, you get a little bit of beard. Do you have a beard?


Merle: [Still in the swamp, gurgling] I’m— Ow! Ow ow ow! Yeah, I got a beard!


Griffin: Wow, Dad, you should really be in charge of the— the foley work.


Clint: [Still gurgling] Thank you.


Griffin: You do a much better job than I do. Uh, and Merle, why don’t you make a, or Magnus why don’t you make a—


Justin: You just make everything sound gooshy.


Griffin: That’s true.


Justin: I don’t like it.


Griffin: Well, that’s sort of like my, what tickles my fancy. Magnus, why don’t you pull, uh, pull your cleric out.


Travis: Mmkay. I roll a— what’s that, a strength?


Griffin: Strength check. Yeah, we’ll do a strength check.


Travis: Mmkay, great. So that was a 15.


Griffin: Fifteen! Yeah, you, in one smooth motion, uh, [Merle lets out a relieved breath] remove the cleric [Squelching swamp noise] from the swampy, uh, goo. Uh, you pull him out, and plop him back down on— well, not terra firma, it’s still swamp, but, uh, that— he is— he’s okay.


Clint: Terra slima.


Griffin: Terra slima, yeah, sure.


Travis: And do I have any move— That was all my move, right?


Griffin: That was it, yeah. But you don’t sink in!


Travis: I don’t?


Griffin: Nope.


Clint: Aha!


Travis: As long as you move, you don’t sink, kids.


Griffin: Uh, next in the order is… the leeches. Um, they both scurry towards the party. You guys are relatively close together. Um, one of them actually goes for Taako, who is half-submerged, and one of them goes for Magnus. Uh, Magnus, again, one of them rears back and spews its yellow spume at you from its haunting glottis. Uh, and you’re gonna make a dexterity saving throw.


Travis: Saving throw, dex two… I got 10.


Griffin: Ten, that is insufficient. You are sprayed with, uh, fluid.


Travis: [Crosstalk] Damn it.


Griffin: Uh, you take five damage, and the fluid, as it hits you, almost like magic shell upon a scoop of ice cream, firms up and becomes almost web-like, and you are restrained, meaning you, uh, you have zero movement until you can successfully make a dexterity saving throw at the end of your turn.


Travis: Okay.


Griffin: The other leech just goes for Taako, uh, and tries to chow down. Uh, 16.


Travis: I— I will use my defender thing here though, right?


Griffin: Yeah, you are close enough for that.


Travis: Okay.


Griffin: Okay. Uh, eight. Probably not gonna hit AC on Taako?


Justin: Twelve, no. Yeah, 12.


Griffin: Twelve. Okay. Uh. Yeah, you, uh—


Justin: Does that increase over— with like, with leveling up, or?


Travis: We gotta get you some new armor.


Justin: Yeah, okay.


Griffin: Uh, I think it is armor and also your dexterity modifier. As you increase that, your AC also goes up.


Justin: Okay, right. So it’s still 12.


Griffin: Mmkay. Uh, yeah, so he does not manage to chow down. Taako, it is your turn, you are half-submerged, you got a leech right up on you. Um, uh, it is the hardier of the two leeches, the leech that just, uh, sprayed Magnus is on death’s door. You guys are pretty clumped together at this point.


Justin: Can I walk?


Griffin: You can’t. Um. You can try and pull yourself out, but you can’t— you can’t move.


Clint: [Crosstalk] That’d be your move.


Magnus: Grab onto my waist belt! Pull yourself up from my groin!


Taako: Well, no, it’s okay, [Chuckling] I’ll just levitate. I’m cool, thanks.


Justin: I levitate*.


Griffin: [Laughs] Okay, is that a thing you can do?


Justin: Yes.


[Travis laughs]


Justin: It’s a second-level, uh, transmutation magic. I just— I just float.


Griffin: M’kay. Uh, you float. You start—


Justin: [Laughs] I mean, that’s the whole thing.


Clint: [Singing] Float, float on…


Griffin: The swamp— the swamp, uh, almost opens up around you like an open mouth and allows you to squoosh out over the swamp, and you are now straight-up levitating over—


Travis: And for half a second, leech and adventurer alike all turn, mouth agape, to stare at the glory of floating Taako.


Griffin: How long does that, uh, last, floating Taako?


Justin: Ten minutes.


Griffin: Okay, so yeah, you no longer have to worry about the effects of the swamp around you. Um, you gonna do anything else, or is that your turn?


Justin: Uh, I can’t really do anything else. That’s my- that’s my action, and I can’t, uh, the— I can’t really move once I’m floating. The only way I can sort of alter my location at all is by pushing or pulling against a fixed object or surface.


Griffin: Merle, you’re up. You are above ground and stink. You smell like swamp, but otherwise you’re good to go there, Shrek.


Clint: All right. How close are the two leeches?


Griffin: They’re both very close. One is right next to you, one is five feet away. The one that is right next to you is super bloodied.


Clint: I’m gonna cast Thunder Wave, and yes, I do have it.


Griffin: Is that a—


Travis: So suck it, Griffin.


Griffin: [Amused] Is that a nature whatever-it-is? One of your boons of being a nature guy?


Clint: It’s a— Yeah!


Griffin: Okay. So you’re having basically a dueling banjos, which is appropriate considering the setting, uh, [Clint laughs] Thunder Wave-off with, uh, Taako at this point.


Clint: Yeah, I don’t know if I wanna do that or not.


Griffin: Oh sorry, I didn’t mean to insult your game. I mean, if you wanna be basically uh, a copycat of Taako, [Clint huffs] then absolutely go for it.


Clint: No—


Griffin: But I thought— I thought you were listening when Fleetwood Mac told you to “Go Your Own Way.”


Clint: All right, I’m gonna try Flame Blade again on the one right in front of me.


Griffin: Okay.


Clint: [Mostly to himself] Wait a minute, what’s the difference between Flame Blade and— aww shit.


[Griffin wheezes with laughter]


Travis: Do you have, like, a sword? Something you can poke him with really hard? Just like attack it? He’s super bloodied.


Clint: I’m rollin’ my own way, bud.


Travis: Okay. I mean, I did just use my whole action to save your butt.


Clint: Oh, all right! All right, I’ll hit Mr. Bloodied with my warhammer.


Travis: Thank you.


Clint: Happy?


Travis: Yes.


Griffin: Also, I don’t know that you can actually cast Flame Blade.


Clint: Yeah, I knew you were looking it up, you little—


Griffin: [Loudly] Yeah, well it’s a good thing I did, because you can’t do it.


[Someone snorts, Travis laughs]


Griffin: Dad's a wi— Dad's a cle-wizard-bard! A cl-wizar-bar-druid. Alright, so what are you— what are you doing, Dad.


Clint: Alright, I roll what, I'm— I'm hitting him—


Griffin: [Crosstalk] What are you doing?


Clint: I'm just hitting him with my uh, my warhammer.


Griffin: Okay.


Clint: Sixteen, um…


Justin: Does he add a modifier to that?


Griffin: Yes, he adds uh, I think plus four? It— it should say next to your warhammer in your character sheet.


Clint: It is plus four, that’s right.


Griffin: ‘Kay, so 20, that’s a hit.


Clint: Twenty, and then roll the d8?


Griffin: Plus two.


Clint: Uh it’s six, plus two, that’s eight.


Griffin: You uh, bring your hammer down on the bloodied leech in front of you, and when you pull the hammer back, the leech has a hammer-shaped indent in it and has stopped moving. Um, he is dead… as hell.


Clint: Yeah, thanks, I got some of my own blood on me, great.


Taako: I thought I’d feel more excited, that was just kinda sad.


[Clint laughs]


Griffin: Uh, next in the order is Magnus.


Travis: Okay, uh—


Griffin: Oh wait oh wait— w-wait, are you gonna move?


Clint: Am I gonna move?


Griffin: Yeah.


Travis: You should!


Clint: Uh, yes.


Griffin: Ok where are you— what are you doing?


Clint: I move one foot back.


Griffin: [Laughing] Okay, you step backwards one foot, uh, and you are fine. Uh, next in the order is Magnus.


Travis: I’m gonna chop him with the wai— railsplitter two-handed.


Griffin: Mmkay. Chopping the other one?


Travis: Yeah.


Justin: Well there’s one left.


Griffin: [Crosstalk] The only living one. Okay.


Travis: Yeah. Um, 24.


Griffin: Yeah, that’ll do it.


Travis: Ok, and that’s a d10.


Griffin: Are you—


Clint: Can we call that one Robin Leech?


Griffin: Yeah, yeah, I guess you were within five feet, ‘cause you were restrained so you can’t move.


Travis: Yeah. And that is six plus six, 12.


Griffin: Twelve. Okay, he is bloodied and he looks like uh— he looks like he’s ready to embrace the— the end.


Travis: Sweet death.


Griffin: Uh, uh—


Travis: Ah, dexterity saving throw?


Griffin: Yes, make a dexterity saving throw, you’re just trying to beat a 10.


Travis: Um, I got… nope! That’s not gonna do it, that’s a five.


Griffin: Yeah. Uh, you do not save and you sink halfway into the slime. Uh, it is now the leech’s turn, uh, he is actually gonna move right back over to you, um, Magnus and, uh, try and recover a little bit of health! He rolls a 15.


Travis: Against my armor class?


Griffin: Yes.


Travis: Uh, that is—


Clint: [Crosstalk] How is the leech rolling?


Travis: —that is th— ah— is not going to hit, and I am going to use riposte: “When creature misses you with melee attack, use reaction and dice to make a melee attack against them, if hit plus dice to the damage.”


Griffin: Oh, so you roll a d20 and one of your superiority dice.


Travis: Correct.


Griffin: Which is a d6?


Travis: Correct.


Justin: [Muttering] What does that mean, superiority dice, what’s that.


Travis: [Crosstalk] So 17—


Griffin: So that is— that’s Travis’s new thing, he has a pool of resources called superiority dice; he gets four of them per day, and he can spend them to do these maneuvers. So right now he’s spending one of them to riposte, which means he makes a counterattack, adds the result of the superiority dice to it. Um, and…


Travis: [Crosstalk] I got a— I got a 24?


Griffin: Yeah, fu— yeah, fuck yeah.


Travis: Okay, and then the damage is— we’ll just— d8… four! Plus six is 10! Plus five, so 15.


Griffin: Yeah you straight up like, Babe Ruth call the shot, and send half of this leech flying, uh, way deep into the swamp.


Clint: And then eat 12 hot dogs and drink 14 beers.


Griffin: [Crosstalk] And what’s really impressive, is that you did this without leg movement.


[Travis laughs]


Griffin: [Laughing] You are halfway down in the swamp, and you, basically like some sort of chopping robot, uh reared back and, uh, sent— sent half of this thing flying.


Merle: Good upper body, dude!


Griffin: Uh, yeah—


Magnus: Thanks, bro.


Griffin: You have solved my Shrek puzzle!


{28:20-37:27} [Max Fun Drive break]


Griffin: The three of you, roll into Rockport after escaping the, uh, the swamp, it takes you a little while, um your— your tickets, uh, say they’d be—


Justin: They had to drag me part of the way you know that right? I had to drop down like my—


Griffin: They just pushed you it was like— it was like air hockey, they just sort of pushed Taako, just sort of slid him across the top of it, uh—


Magnus: I got a Taako balloon!


Griffin: You got a good lay of the land, um, when you crash landed so you— you knew which direction to head, you made it out of the swamp, uh it took you a little a while, uh- your tickets for the Rockport Limited say it departs at 10:15, uh, and by the time that you manage to get to Rockport it is, uh, it is 9:45, so you are cutting it… relatively close. You’re also—


Magnus: [Crosstalk] Oh, we got plenty of time!


Griffin: You’re also rolling up into Rockport, uh, Magnus, you are covered in a stinky yellow, uh, goo, that dried up so it isn’t really restricting you anymore but it is unsightly and un-stink-ly. Uh… Taako, you are just sort of crusty from the waist down, with uh, with swampy goo that you’ve been unable to rinse off your body. Dad, you look like some sort of weird… shit-monster, uh, who is just caked in— in swamp—


Justin: And your character in this game…


[Griffin laughs]


Clint: [Laughs] Yeah you said Dad! Uh, great…


[Travis laughs]


Griffin [Crosstalk] Merle is absolutely clean.


Clint: [Crosstalk] Everybody else was their character.


Griffin: Um, Merle you look like a little, uh, just a— a little shit monster, you have goo caked, uh, in your clothes and your beard and your h— do you have hair?


Clint: Uh, I have a little fringe of hair, yes.


Griffin: A little fringe? What does that even—


Clint: [Crosstalk] And it’s caked with shit.


Griffin: [Crosstalk] What is—


Travis: Where you least expect it!


Griffin: What does that mean?


Clint: A little fringe of hair like a—



Griffin: You’ve got a— you’ve got— it’s sort of like—


Clint: Like a tonsure, it’s like a tonsure.


Griffin: It’s kind of like, uh, how some people get their basketball number carved in their hair—


[Someone giggles]


Clint: Yeah, yeah.


Griffin: —but for you it’s just your hair is your basketball number.


Clint: Yeah, and—


Griffin: And what num— what number is that?


Clint: Uh, that would be 26.


Griffin: Twenty-six, okay. Thank you for not saying 69.


Clint: Yeah and— and listen I don’t— I mean not that it’s important but I [Loudly] lost a lot of blood! Don’t be worried about me, I’m fine!


Griffin: Yeah, you guys have not had time to have a, uh short rest, you have had to book it in order to get to this train on time. So you roll into, uh, Rockport, it is a, umm… it is a city of— of iron and industry, um—


Travis: [Singing over Griffin, the tune similar to the beginning of the song “Mr. Sandman”] Boop boop boop boop boop boop boop boop boop boop boop boop boooo!


Griffin: That is built into— what is that?


Travis: Boop boop boop boop boo— That’s a city on the move!


{39:45}


Griffin: [Half-laughing] Okay, so thank you. Um, it is sort of built—


Travis: [Announcer voice] Rockport, a city on the grow!


[Clint loses his shit laughing]


Travis: Dun dun dun doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doooo! Welcome to lovely downtown Rockport! City of industry!


Clint: [Joins in with his own announcer voice] And of dreams!


Travis: Home to manufacturers! Boop boop boop boop boop boop boop boop boop boop boop boooo.


Justin: [Crosstalk] Hey, hey, it’s me, Bing Crosby.


Travis: Creators!


Justin: Y’know it’s me, Bing Crosby, I love every visit to Rockport.


Clint: [Crosstalk] Scholastic Films presents!


Justin: The people here are— a-are so alert, god. And uh, they always make it feel like a second home to me. Rockport.


Clint: Hey! You look like a little pile of shit, dwarf!


Griffin: [Crosstalk] Um—


Justin: [Crosstalk] People always say, hey—


Travis: While visiting Rockport, don’t fail to visit the museum of industry! Boop boop boop boop b— [Bursts out laughing]


[Clint loses his shit laughing again]


Griffin: Uh, the three of you are making— the— th-the town—


Justin: We don’t need this train, we can entertain ourselves here.


Griffin: And we don’t need the rest— you don’t need me!


{40:42}


Travis: You’ve grown irrelevant!


Clint: [Crosstalk] I’ll share the spotlight…


Griffin: I am completely irrelevant.


Clint: Rrrar.


Griffin: Um, the town of Rockport is built into the base of one of the mountains that make up the Teeth. It’s uh, it is, it’s huge, this entire range of mountains— imagine like a bunch of Kilimanjaros just sort of layered, stacked up— on top of each other.


Clint: Ooh.


Griffin: Um, and— and that’s kind of— Yeah I mean it’s, it’s pretty majestic! It’s—


Clint: Yeah!


Griffin: —it is a majestic mountain range, and the town is built into the base of it, and sort of in the back of the town, really going into the mountains, uh, there— there’s sort of a main avenue leading straight towards it, uh, is the train station. Um… so, you guys know basically where you’re going, you walk by the Museum of Industry, um—


Travis: [Singing] Boop boop boop boop boop!


Clint: [Yelling from a distance] Come on in!


Griffin: You walk by, um, uh, some— some factories, some buildings that are just all smokestacks, uh, and—


Clint: Any truck stops where we can grab a quick shower and some jerky or anything like that?


Griffin: Ah you can try and make— find a… a Sheetz if you want, but you— you may not have time.


Justin: [Crosstalk] Fantasy Sheetz.


Griffin: Uh, yeah.


Travis: Character Sheetz.


Griffin: It’s up to you if you guys— if you guys wanna try and find a place to— to clean your bodies before you uh, before you g—


Justin: I just think it would be smart if we’re gonna try to run a scam, that maybe we look halfway presentable.



Griffin: [Crosstalk] Yeah!


Travis: [Crosstalk] Well, listen—


Griffin: Yeah, so you got— you got a half hour you could— you could, uh, yeah you can try and look around.


Travis: Where’s the nearest brothel?


Griffin: … Uh—


Justin: [Crosstalk] Okay. I don’t see how that’s gonna help with—


Clint: Good thinking. Gooood thinking.


Travis: No, because you can get baths at a brothel, or an inn, or something like that.


Griffin: Um…


Travis: And I figure the place where they’re gonna ask the least amount of questions is the brothel.


Justin: Is there somebody around us we can ask?


Clint: With a lot of eye makeup and like a beauty mark.


Griffin: Uh, there are a lot of people on this street, it’s— it is a, it is a busy town, um—


Justin: Is there somebody around us who just looks like, helpful or maybe is wearing armor?


Clint: Maybe Tom Bodett, is Tom Bodett anywhere in this town?


Justin: [Crosstalk] Is Tom Bodett literally—


Griffin: [Crosstalk] There is a—


Travis: [Crosstalk] Has anyone left a light on for us?


Griffin: There’s a Ron Bodett who is uh, dressed in a suit of armor in a, uh… standing in a, uh, police watchbox. A what? That’s not a thing that exists!


Clint: Ohhhh!


Justin: Yeah.


Clint: Ohh.


Justin: He’s gonna point us towards Brothel 6.


Clint: I like your creativity. Magnus talk to him, you got the charisma, baby.


Griffin: Yes, th— you— there is a— there is a constable-looking fellow over uh— uh— what did you say? What was the person’s name you were asking about?


Justin: Tom Bodett.


Clint: Tom Bodett.


Griffin: Who is that?


Justin: He’s the guy— Motel 6, you leave the light on.


Clint: Motel 6, you leave the light on. Yeah.


Griffin: Okay, yeah, Tom Bodett is there for some reason.


[Justin laughs]


Griffin: Um, he uh, th— God, I’m getting into, uh—


Justin: You gotta be sure to do a good Tom Bodett impression.


Griffin: Okay.


Tom Bodett: [Voice completely unchanged] Hi, I’m Tom Bodett, what did you guys need?


Clint: Yeah, well that’s really pretty close, yeah.


Justin: Welcome to Rockport.


Tom Bodett: You guys new here? I’m actually part of the— the tourism industry, part of the welcome committee so tell me what you need to know.


Magnus: [Singing over Tom Bodett] Boop boop boop boop boop boop boop boop boop boop boop boop boooo!


Tom Bodett: I was— oh so you know our theme song.


Merle: Oh, we were looking for a brothel, officer.


Tom Bodett: A what now?


Magnus: Uh, ignore the shit monster. We’re looking for a place where we can bathe in like a real quick hurry.


Tom Bodett: Uh, that’s kind of a weird request but it does seem like you need it, you guys stink and one of you looks like it—


Magnus: I heard Rockport was a city that welcomes all kinds.


Tom Bodett: Yeah, we do, I guess—


Merle: Including shit monsters.


Tom Bodett: Kind of begrudgingly. We have a bathetorium, and, um—


Magnus: Okay great! Where’s that?


Tom Bodett: Uh it’s about, uh, it’s on the outskirts of town, it’s about 25 miles out.


Merle: [Crosstalk] Aww.


Taako: [Crosstalk] Ah shit.


Magnus: [Crosstalk] Well that’s shitty, Tom Bodett.


Tom Bodett: That’s probably not gonna cut it— I mean you guys can come back to my house if you want, I got like a hose, um—


[All three chorusing agreement]


Tom Bodett: —sitting around in front of it, okay, you—


Merle: How far away is your house?


Tom Bodett: It’s right here, you’re right in front of it.


[Laughing]


Merle: Oh. Alright!


Taako: I was wondering about the hose, right here, next to your boots, that explains it.


Griffin: And he uh, he takes you back to his backyard [Clint laughing] and turns the faucet on the side of the house on, uh, the hose has sprung a leak and he’s like, "Aw."


Tom Bodett: Oh no, the hose doesn’t work, that’s a shame you guys are just— here just come close to the faucet.


Griffin: And he just starts splashing you.


Travis: He just holds his thumb over it?


Clint: I cast a— I wanna make a duct tape roll.


Griffin: Okay, you uh, put your finger over the holes in the hose, uh, and start just sorta blasting each other.


Justin: Alright, I cast a cantrip of Mending on the hose, and fix it.


Griffin: Okay! That’s a thing you can do now.


Clint: [Crosstalk] Ooh! Somebody got serious.


Justin: Just— that’s just to thank him.


Griffin: Okay.


Tom Bodett: Oh, thanks man.


Taako: Listen, I wanna do something for you, Tom Bodett, from Motel 6 ads. Here, check this out. Fleddilydiddilydoo!


Tom Bodett: Oh wow, my hose! Thanks, dude! My dad gave me this hose before he died.


Clint: And, and he just turned the lights on.


Taako: NP, NP.


Tom Bodett: N what?


Taako: No problem.


Tom Bodett: Oh sorry, I don’t— internet doesn’t exist yet.


Taako: Wizard speech.


Tom Bodett: Sure, sure, I’ve heard of this. Uh, okay do you guys—


Taako: Wizards talk like internet.


Tom Bodett: Should I hose you guys down, or you wanna take turns doing each other? I understand we just met and so you may not trust me to…


Magnus: Let’s all hose each other!


Tom Bodett: Mmkay. I got a sprinkler too, we could have some fun back here. You guys aren’t going anywhere, are you?


Taako: Do you have a, uh—


Magnus: Okay we spray each other real quick, time’s a wastin’.


Taako: Do you have like a, one of those wild…


Merle: Oh those wiggles?


Taako: Wiggle things that spray the water everywhere?


Merle: Ohh…


Magnus: You guys.


Merle: [In the background] Water wiggles, water wiggles!


Griffin: Okay, yeah you guys have a brief, uh 10-minute sprinkler party with Tom Bodett, uh, in his backyard. Uh—


[Water running]


Justin: Does he have a Slip ‘n Slide?


Griffin: He doesn’t have a Slip ‘n Slide—


Travis: [Crosstalk] Okay. Time to go!


Griffin: He did just make a uh, he— he’s got the fixin’s for mimosas—


Tom Bodett: You guys want some mimosas?


Taako: No—


Merle: [Crosstalk] I want mimosas.


Magnus: Sorry Tom Bodett, we’ve gotta get out of here.


Tom Bodett: [Crosstalk] It’s not a sprinkler party without mimosas.


Magnus: But we’ll see you when we come through Rockport again.


Tom Bodett: Does anybody want a… kiss?


Magnus: Yes.


[Laugh-wheezing]


Merle: Uhh—


Travis: I— I hug him.


Taako: We gotta go.


Tom Bodett: Okay, that’s good enough. It was really great to meet you guys—


Travis: [Crosstalk] And I whisper in his ear—


Magnus: I’ll always love you, Tom Bodett.


Tom Bodett: I don’t know that that— okay. Well—


Taako: You’re welcome that we willed you into existence, Tom.


Tom Bodett: Ye— thank you. I am going to die as soon as you guys leave.


Merle: Do you think maybe we can s—


[All burst into laughter]


Clint: No! C’mon! Maybe Tom Bodett’s a big fan of the podcast.


Griffin: You are— you are—


Travis: Oh, and as we walk away, he whispers, “I’ll see you again, Bureau of— [Laughter] Bureau of Balance.”


Clint: [Octaves lower] Bureau of Balance.


Travis: [Crosstalk] As he twists his hands together and twirls his mustache.


Griffin: He pulls a red robe— He pulls a red robe over his head and vanishes. Um, okay, so you are de-stunk, you manage to make it to the ticket counter of the uh— of the Rockport train station with minutes to spare. Uh, and the ticket-taker, who looks mysteriously a lot like Tom Bodett, is like—


Clint: Ah, Don Bodett.


Justin: Is it like that scene in Wizard of Oz that’s just the same guy—


Clint: [Imitating that scene] Come on in!


Griffin: Uh, it is actually Tom Bodett, and he says,


Tom Bodett: Oh weird! You guys are— uh taking a train. You should've said something, I didn't know th— By the way, what's your guys’ names? Uh wh— What do you guys go by? What are you handles?


Merle: I’m Leeman Kessler.


Tom Bodett: Okay! it’s nice to—


Merle: I believe there’s already a ticket for me.


Tom Bodett: There is, yeah! Uh, and we are— we are holding some of your cargo, as well. Let me get that.


Griffin: He reaches down underneath the desk, and pulls out a shimmering, uh, almost platinum-esque ticket that he slides through the— there’s a window that he is behind, with a small gap in it, he slides it through the gap, uh, and hands it to you. He says, uh:


Tom Bodett: Mr. Kessler, you’re really going to uh, you’re gonna enjoy the journey. Are these two coming with you?


Merle: The, uh, these are my retainers.


Tom Bodett: Okay.


Merle: This is Bo, and that’s Diddley. And uh, we—


Tom Bodett: Which one’s which?


Merle: Uh, the— the short one that has kinda a vague look in his eyes, that’s Bo.


Tom Bodett: Mmkay, but you’ve just described, neither of th— they’re about the same height, and both of them look relatively vague.


Merle: Okay, the— the one who is pretending to be a wizard is Bo. And the one—


Taako: I’m Leon Kessler.


[Laughter]


Tom Bodett: Are you guys related?


Merle: Uh, he spells his with two— uh, with an O, he said Leon, and that’s my twin brother, who works for me.


Taako: [Aside] Are you Leon?


Merle: [Aside] I’m Leeman.


Taako: [Aside] Oh you— you’re Lee—


Tom Bodett: [Crosstalk] I thought you said— I thought you said Leeman— okay.


Magnus: Hey dog, we gotta go, if you’ll excuse us—


Taako: [Crosstalk] I, I— my name is—


Tom Bodett: I’m really glad that the three of you are the people who you say you are, because if you were doing some sort of ruse right now—


Merle: [Crosstalk] Nooooooo!


Tom Bodett: —it’d be very, very poorly constructed.


Merle: [Crosstalk] Noooooo.


Magnus: Goodness no.


Tom Bodett: So Leeman, Leon, and Diddley?


Taako: My name is Flan Bodett.


[Laughter]


Tom Bodett: Okay. I’m gonna, let’s just go—


Travis: Magnus gives Taako a thumbs up.


Taako: [Crosstalk] I— I panicked.


Tom Bodett: We’re gonna stop, for a second, we’re gonna stop for a second— we’re just gonna stop for a second. And we’re just gonna go down the line— I’m gonna point at you, and you’re gonna tell me what your name is. Obviously, Leeman Kessler—


Griffin: He points at you, uh, Merle.


Merle: That’s me! I’m Leeman Kessler!


Tom Bodett: Yep! Got that one.


Griffin: He points at Magnus.


Tom Bodett: You’re… you are?


Magnus: Mmhmm, yes, go on?


Merle: Leeroy, tell him, Leeroy Kessler.


Magnus: No, I’m— I’m, I’m Diddley Kessler.


Tom Bodett: You’re Diddley, that’s— what I thought and, uh, you, uh, wizardly looking fellow?


Taako: Justin.


[Laughter]


Clint: That’s deep cover.


Tom Bodett: Perfect. Perfect. Okay, Justin, Leeman, and Diddley, uh. Diddley and Justin, you guys have your own tickets? I’m, [Voice starts trailing off] I’m hoping. Please. God.


Merle: Oh, no, uh, look at mine very carefully.


Magnus: Yes, yes we do.


Merle: Look at the shiny thing in my hand.


Tom Bodett: Yeah I gave that to you, it’s not—


Merle: [Crosstalk] Yeah, but just watch it.


Tom Bodett: —psychic paper.


Justin: I cast Charm Person on Tom Bodett.


Griffin: Mmkay.


[Laughter]


Griffin: That’s just sorta y— that’s sorta like the only arrow in your quiver, when it comes to handling Bodetts— [Crosstalk] non-playable Bodetts.


Clint: [Crosstalk] That phrase has never been uttered.


Justin: D’you know what’s unfortunate, you know what’s funny, is that we, we were able to charm the last Bodett with just charm. This Bodett is too wily for me, I’m gonna have to use magical charm.


Griffin: Okay. Uh, how does that work?


Travis: Griffin, can I make a, um, I guess it’s a perception check, to find out if I know if Rockport is just populated by all Tom Bodetts?


[Laughter]


Griffin: It’s like House of Wax, they’re all animatronically—


Travis: I rolled a 16.


Griffin: Yep, it’s all Bodetts.


Travis: [Laughing] Okay, it’s Bodetts all the way down.


Griffin: Um… but th— those Bodetts know how to run a city, ‘cause this place is immaculate. Okay, so you are casting it— what do I do?


Justin: So, I’m gonna attempt to charm a humanoid, uh, Tom’s gonna make a wisdom saving throw. I am— I assume that you have already set a wisdom level for Tom Bodett, Motel 6 pitch man.


Clint: It’s gotta be a six!


Justin: It’s gotta be six.


Griffin: Uh, it actually is a six, so uh, good luck!


Travis: I’ve heard him on Wait Wait… Don’t Tell Me!, he’s pretty intelligent.


Griffin: I’m trying to roll a fourt— er, a 14, right? Is that what I’m trying to beat?


Justin: Yeah.


Griffin: Mmkay. Ah shit, I rolled a six, that’s 12, not going to do it, he’s charmed.


Tom Bodett: Heyyyy~


Travis: [Imitating charmed Bodett] What is up?


Tom Bodett: Do you, uh…


Clint: [Imitating charmed Bodett] What can I do for you guys?


Tom Bodett: You guys want a kiss?


Merle: … Uh, tickets! Uh, my- my- my retainers need tickets.


Tom Bodett: I already gave you mine, and they seem to have their own already.


Magnus: Yep.


Merle: Okay.


Magnus: Uh, we just need the cargo, and then we’re gonna get on the plane. Or train? Automobile?


Tom Bodett: Can I just say— can I say something? And this might sound weird. But I think the three of you are exactly who you’re tellin’ me you are. And I don’t know— again, it seems like a weird thing to say, but I am… just so charmed by you.


Merle: Nothin’ weird there.


Taako: It’s all normal.


Merle: By the way, we got a sleeper car, right?


Tom Bodett: Uh, you do, yeah, and a… a seat in the uh, the passenger train as well. So.


Taako: Comp us some snacks.


Tom Bodett: Okay?


Griffin: He uh, slides some Melba toast, just unpackaged, through the glass. And he’s like—


[Laughter & incomprehensible mocking]


Tom Bodett: I was gonna have these as a lunchtime treat, but it seems like you—


Clint: I wanna use Detect Magic to see if it’s magic Melba?


Griffin: Isn’t all Melba toast pretty fucking magical to begin with?


Justin: [Holding back laughter] Can I— Can I roll to see if I get horrifically depressed by the idea that Tom Bodett consid— considers Melba toast to be a fun [Dissolves into laughter] snack?


Griffin: Well no, because it’s transformative, you can do anything with it. What do you got? You— you can— I’m afraid to say foodstuff now ‘cause Dad has me fucking paranoid that every time I say a food thing he’ll be like, “Oh well that goes on—”!


Clint: Good, you should be, dungeon master!


Griffin: It’s just, I didn’t expect one of you to be so vigilant for— for tex-mex.


Clint: Well, just get used to it.


Griffin: Um—


Justin: That’s actually dad in real life. You cannot drive past a tex-mex place, he’s like, “Hey hey hey! Whoa— whoa slow down! Slow down!”


Griffin: Uh, he says— he pops open the back door of his ticket booth and says, uh—


Tom Bodett: You guys are actually the last ones to uh, board, so if you want, I can walk you to the platform.


Magnus: [Laughing] And then go home and slowly die.


[Laughter]


Tom Bodett: Go home to my Bodett wife. And my Bodett kids.


Merle: Bernadette Bodett.


Justin: This is the weirdest episode ever.


Griffin: Yup! Uh, he—


Merle: Let’s get on the train.


Griffin: He starts to walk you through the train station, yes, uh—


Magnus: We need the cargo—


Tom Bodett: Yes, Leeman, what are you, uh what, what— what are you, uh, what takes you to Neverwinter today?


Merle: Um, a combination of business and pleasure.


Tom Bodett: Oh! Bis-pleasure, huh? I’ve heard of that.


Merle: Yeah.


Tom Bodett: Pleas-ness. Pleas-ness, huh?



Merle: Yeah…


Tom Bodett: Uh—


Merle: Yeah, I gotta keep ‘em pretty close to the vest, you understand don’t you Tom?


Tom Bodett: Now Leeman, we’ve already re— uh, received your cargo and we have it locked away in the uh, in the cargo car, so that’s not gonna be an issue, that’s gonna get there safe and sound. Um, it was rated as a high priority item, and so it’s kinda protocol for me to, uh, walk our— our VIP passengers through the security process.


Merle: Oh, yeah.


Tom Bodett: Yeah, if you’ll just come with me—


Griffin: He, he takes you into the station. It is a, uh, it’s a, I mean it’s a cavern, right, it’s carved into the foot of the Teeth, uh one of the mountains of the Teeth, um, but it’s not, uh, it’s not as drab as you would expect a cave to be, it’s actually very well lit with some, some fountains and uh—


Clint: A newsstand tree-osk. [Pronounced like kiosk]


Griffin: Some trees grow— a newsstand kiosk, uh, inside. Um, and in the middle of this uh, the entryway into this station is uh, is one of the cargo cars of this train, that is non-operational, it’s not on a track, it’s just sort of, up on a pedestal, and Bodett walks you over to the car and pops open the caboose door and is like—


Tom Bodett: Come on in! I’ll show you around.


Merle: ‘Kay.


Tom Bodett: This is the uh, this is the cargo car that is on all of our trains, uh, it’ll be on the Rockport Limited, when you take it to Neverwinter. As you can see there’s no windows in the car, uh, keeps it very secure from marauders. Most of the line runs through the mountains, so we’re not especially worried about, uh, train jumpers, if you will. Uh—


Taako: Have you uh— have you had any incidents recently?


Tom Bodett: Never. We have never lost a piece of cargo, we have never uh, never lost anything that we have locked away. Uh, and that is because—


Griffin: —He says, uh—


Tom Bodett: —of this thing.


Griffin: And he points to the middle of the car, is a, a 5-by-5-foot onyx cube.


Clint: An Amish cube. That sounds so cool.


Griffin: Onyx cube that is built into the floor of this train. Um, he says, uh—


Tom Bodett: This is a crypt safe. Uh, and it is—


Magnus: [Crosstalk] Mhmm. A Crypt-keeper, if you will.


Tom Bodett: Uh, if you want to be that way. If you wanna be that guy, sure.


Magnus: If you wanna be like that.


Tom Bodett: This is indestructible. Nobody’s gonna be smashing into a crypt safe anyway, any time soon. Uh, and it is also—


Magnus: May I… test that?


Tom Bodett: Uh, if you want, but don’t use a weapon that you like, to do it.


Magnus: Nevermind.


Merle: Yes, don’t.


Tom Bodett: Uh, what— what makes this special is it’s time-locked. Meaning only a Rockport Limited employee can open it with one hour of sustained physical contact. So it’s not like a, even if a robber somehow did manage to get onboard, or if somebody managed to pass our screening process and get onboard a train, uh, they— they are not going to be able to pop this thing open, they would need somebody who works here to do so, and they would need to stand there for, uh, an hour, which just simply would not happen! It is the safest way to get… your shit from Point A to Point B.


Magnus: Does that really slow down the luggage unloading process?


Tom Bodett: Uh, by about an hour, yes. So in that sense it’s— but the train makes a 200-mile journey in four hours, and you would be, uh, hard-pressed to, uh, find a form of transportation that is going to be that expedient, um… in the world, so.


Merle: Well, Tom, I’m sure, I mean, since I’ve done this many times before—


Tom Bodett: Yeah!


Merle: —you have some kind of back door method for me to check just to make sure that my uh, my merchandise is safe so, go ahead and—


Tom Bodett: Well, it’s already loaded, uh, it’s loaded onto the actual, um… train, and once we put it into the crypt safe it actually becomes the property of the Rockport Limited until the train has made its— reached its final destination so—


Merle: Ah, I see.


Tom Bodett: That unfortunately will not be possible, but it— believe me, it is in, not only good hands— the best hands.


Merle: Mmm.


Magnus: Okay! Sounds great.


Merle: Sounds good.


Tom Bodett: Um—


Merle: Doesn’t really. It doesn’t sound good at all. It’s a setup for something. This is bad.


Taako: [Crosstalk] No, it’s bad.


Tom Bodett: Um. Did— no, I heard all of that—


Magnus: Shhh! Tom, you’re still charmed.


Merle: You’re charmed.


Magnus: Put your fingers in your ears.


Tom Bodett: And can I tel— can I say something? I loved it!


[Laughter]


Tom Bodett: I love your caution, um, and I love just how suspicious you’re all being.


Merle: Now, now listen, Tom, when we’re all done, when we’re completely done with you—


Tom Bodett: We will kiss.


Merle: We want you to—


Tom Bodett: Sorry?


Merle: No, we want you to step in front of the next train that is coming by, okay?


[Justin bursts into laughter]


Magnus: No!


Merle: Is that okay?


Taako: [Laughing] Oh my god!


Merle: If— if you don’t mind doing that for us.


Tom Bodett: You need me to— to step…


[Justin continues laughing]


Magnus: No! We can’t kill Tom Bodett!


Merle: No, yeah yeah.


Tom Bodett: You need me to step—


Merle: You’ll love it. It’s a once—


Magnus: He’s got little Bodetts at home!


Tom Bodett: What happens when I do it?


Merle: Oh! It’s a once-in-a-lifetime experience!


Magnus: No! Merle, you’re a cleric! You’re supposed—


Justin: [Laughing] Dad, why— Why’s our dad putting a kill switch in beloved pitchman Tom Bodett?


Travis: We can’t kill Tom Bodett!


Clint: I have a feeling!


Griffin: Okay. Uh. You hear from outside the train, “All aboard!” and Tom Bodett goes:


Tom Bodett: Well, [Laughter] time to— Time to go, I guess. [More laughter] I’ll show you guys to your seats, and—


Merle: [Crosstalk] All right, all right. Wait, wait. Let me clarify. Let me clarify.


Tom Bodett: Yeah?


Merle: Not a moving train. [Defeated] Just step in front of a train, wave goodbye, and then step off the… tracks.


Tom Bodett: Okay, that seems weird. Weirder even, then, but [Laughter] let’s uh, let’s get you guys uh, situated.


Clint: This is gonna come back and bite us in the ass, I know it.


Justin: Not killing Tom Bodett?


Clint: You’ll see.


Griffin: “Tom Bodett,” hold on wait! Rearrange the letters! “Voldemort” what!?


[Laughter]

Griffin: Previously, on the Adventure Zone:


Director: Secure passage on this train. One of you will need to be Leeman Kessler. You will need to retrieve the relic, and get it back to us any way that you can.


Clint: Is Tom Bodett anywhere in this town?


Justin: [crosstalk] Is Tom Bodett literally—


Travis: [crosstalk] Has anyone left a light on for us?


Griffin: You manage to make it to the ticket counter.


Merle: I’m Leeman Kessler.


Magnus: I’m, I’m Diddley Kessler.


Tom Bodett: You’re Diddley, that’s what I thought. And you, wizardly looking fellow?


Taako: Justin.


[laughter]


Taako: I cast Charm Person on Tom Bodett.


Griffin: Mmkay.


Merle: We want you to step in front of the next train that is coming by, okay?


Magnus: No!


Merle: Is that okay?


Taako: [laughing] Oh my god!


Merle: If you don’t mind doing that for us.


Tom Bodett: You need me to step—


[Justin continues laughing]


Griffin: Uh, you hear from outside the train, “All aboard!” and Tom Bodett goes,


Tom Bodett: Well, [laughter] time to, time to go, I guess.


Announcer: Come on, ride the train. It’s the Choo Choo and ride it! … [chuckling] It’s the Adventure Zone!


[Theme music: Déjà Vu by Mort Garson]


{1:39}


Griffin: So the three of you have just checked in with Tom Bodett— one of the Tom Bodetts, one of the many, many animatronic Tom Bodetts that occupy Rockport— uh, and have boarded the train. Um, you walk in through a door to the main passenger car compartment—


Travis: Griffy, is this, uh, is this train luxurious, or is it, like, utilitarian?


Griffin: It is fully luxuried out. It is the Lexus of fantasy trains. I’m talking—


Justin: [quietly] Thank goodness.


Griffin: I’m talking gilded. It’s gilded with gold. It’s, uh—


Travis: Gilded with gold, you say?


[Justin laughs]


Griffin: It’s uh—


Justin: Fine thing to gild with.


Griffin: It’s gilded with uh, silver and platinum—


Justin: [crosstalk] Just gold. No—


Griffin: No.


Clint: No.


Justin: Gold’s the only thing you can gild with.


Travis: Can’t gild with anything else!


Griffin: Watch me! [laughter] Watch me. It’s, it’s bedazzled with electrum— It’s a, it’s a— yeah, it’s a really nice train. Um—


Justin: Smell good?


Griffin: Smells great. Posh interior, soft seats, uh, shag carpeting, which is weird, but it’s like nice shag carpeting.


Justin: Right.


Griffin: Uh, so you walk in through the main passenger entrance, into the passenger car, and there waiting for you is a very tall, very finely dressed elven man, who is wearing a Rockport Limited uniform. Uh, he has a mustache which is rare for elves, not typically known for their, uh, bodacious facial hair, but there you are. And this man looks down at you as you are boarding the train, and says:


Elven Man: [slightly deep, flat voice] Tickets and weapons, please.


Merle: Ah.


Taako: No problem. Um, is it okay if I keep my umbrella in case of a storm?


Elven Man: Well, yeah, it’s not— yeah, I wouldn’t typically consider that to be a weapon. Can I see your tickets please, though?


Magnus: Yes.


Taako: Here you go.


Merle: Yes! Here’s mine.


Griffin: He snatches them all up.


Justin: Griffin, do we have tickets? Oh, we did get tickets.


Griffin: Yeah.


[lots of crosstalk in agreement]


Travis: Whoo, that was close! I almost had to kill him!


[laughter]


Griffin: [chuckles] He snatches them up.


Elven Man: Oh, Leeman Kessler! Oh yes, I understand we are carrying a, uh, very precious piece of cargo for you in the caboose.


Magnus: [crosstalk] Yes, take good care of his package. [giggling]


Merle: Ha ha!


Elven Man: Terrific. This is kind of a fancy train, so if we could—


Merle: Yeah!


Elven Man: —maybe watch that stuff. Uh, my name is—


Griffin: Wait for it—


Travis: [laughs] Tom Bodett.


[laughter]


Elven Man: My name is—


Travis: [crosstalk] My name is Lazy DM.


[Clint laughs]


Justin: Did you know that there’s only one real Tom Bodett, and the rest are Tom Faux-detts? [laughter] It’s true.


Hudson: Uh. My name is Hudson. I am the engineer of this train. Uh, welcome aboard. We’re, we’re happy to have you. We know that you have lots of choices to pick from for subterranean inter-city travel here, but uh— and we sure do appreciate the fact that you picked us!


Magnus: Well, we tried to get on the Rockport Unlimited, but it was full.


Hudson: [amused] That train is a little too extreme for most people. [Travis laughs] It doesn’t even go on rails. It just sort of— they j— they just sort of off-road it.


Magnus: [crosstalk] Well, where doesn’t it go?


Hudson: Uh, well, it doesn’t get to its destination, usually. It usually crashes and it’s pretty terrible. Uh, but thank you for— for uh, joining us. Uh, who are your compatriots here?


Merle: [attempting a Scottish accent] Uh, my compatriots?


Hudson: Oh, my god.


Justin: Oh no.


Merle: Aye, Leeman has a Scottish accent!


Travis: No, he doesn’t!


Hudson: Okay…


Clint: Yes, he does!


Travis: Wait, let me check my notes here: he does not!


Clint: [still talking in the bad accent] No, it’s right here in my character sheet!


Hudson: That’s interesting, because the Leeman I spoke to—


Justin: I keep turning down his volume, and it keep— I swear to god, it keeps getting louder.


Griffin: I think Dad has hacked into your mainframe.


[Clint chuckles]


Travis: He’s become self-aware!


Hudson: You all are in luck. This is uh, this is actually not a very full train. You’ll have your pick of seating in the passenger car. You have your own room, uh—


Taako: I didn’t introduce myself!


Hudson: Oh, sorry, yes, go right ahead.


Taako: I have a name as well!


Hudson: Terrific!


Clint: And feelings.


Taako: [awkwardly] Good day to you… Thank you for having me on your choo choo.


[Clint wheezes]


Hudson: Are you disembarking? We haven’t even left the station yet.


Taako: I need to find a seat that has a comfort… equitable… to my… situation!


Clint: Big rump.


Hudson: I appreciate your fancy speech. Um, that is, that is how we, uh—


Taako: Gratuities to you…


Hudson: Uh—


Taako: …for the compliment.


[Clint laughs]


Hudson: Uh, now I will be in here—


Griffin: And he points to the uh, the engine car to, uh, to his right at the head of the train. The engine car— the entrance to the car is a very high-security heavy metal door with a, like, window slot in it for him to look out. But it is— it’s a very secure door, and he says:


Hudson: I will, I will be in here for the duration of the trip. Uh, I— I, I won’t be coming out as just a security measure. Uh, if somebody were to take the helm of this train, they could— I mean, they could drive it—


Travis: Is this, possibly, foreshadowing?


[Clint and Justin laugh]


Clint: Or rampant paranoia?


[Travis laughs]


Travis: [gruffly] I’m tellin’ you guys. Trust me. Oh, it could happen!


Hudson: The, uh, Mountain Train Security Agency protocols demand that I stay in the engine for the duration of the trip, uh, with no visitors. I’m sure some of you would like to learn how a choo choo works—


Magnus: I’d like to sit on your lap.


Hudson: Well, and I—


Magnus: [crosstalk] Maybe steer a little bit.


Hudson: You are not alone in that desire, but unfortunately, it’s, uh, engineers only in the engine. Uh, and after the trip, I will escort you to the crypt safe in the caboose, and I will help you retrieve your, uh, your package. Uh, but from that point on, it’s, it’s in your hands.


Taako: [giggles] Sorry, uh, just to clarify, where was the package again?


Hudson: The package is in the caboose, I don’t—


[laughter]


Merle: [laughing] “The package is in the caboose!” Ahahaha oh… Oh…


Magnus: Thank you very much, we’ll be retiring to our rooms now.


Hudson: [amused] Okay, well. This was a great talk, and [Travis and Clint laugh] I feel like if other people were listening to this conversation— say, thousands and thousands of people— they would put their, uh, listening apparatus down, and they would go, “Wow, that was a good recorded conversation I just listened to.”



[laughter]


Clint: And then puncture their own ear drums.


Hudson: And if, say, those listeners had, uh, somehow paid money to support our conversation, [Clint laughs] they would say, “Yes, I have chosen to spend my money wisely, and I feel great about my life and my decisions.” Um, but see you later! Smell you later!


Griffin: He says,


Hudson: Yeah, before you go, I just need to, uh, grab your weapons from you. Uh, these will also be locked up in the, uh, vault, and we’ll be returning them to you as soon as we reach our final destination.


Magnus: But my whole body is a weapon. You see, [Justin laughs] I’ve trained myself—


Hudson: Listen—


Clint: [crosstalk] Thank you, Barney Fife.


Hudson: You’re— are you one of those magic flesh swords?


[Travis laughs]


Magnus: I am.


Hudson: I’ve heard about those, where a— a, uh, a young witch kisses a sword, and it turns into a human man.


Magnus: It was something like that.


Hudson: [amused] I read about that in my Penthouse magazine.


Travis: “I never believed it would happen to me.”


Hudson: Uh, no I just— just give me those weapons, and I’ll lock ‘em right up. Put ‘em right in the car. You’ll never know that they were missing. Unless you need them. But you won’t, super safe train.


Clint: Hmm.


Magnus: I do hold on to my glove, though.


Hudson: Which one?


Magnus: My gauntlet.


Hudson: Yeah, that’s fine. What could you possibly do with a gauntlet?


Magnus: [sheepishly] Well it keeps in— I have Smelly Hand Syndrome.


Hudson: Oh my god, me too. I didn’t think I’d ever meet another.


Griffin: He pulls off uh, the, uh, leather glove that he has over his left hand,  and—


Taako: [crosstalk] Oh god! Ooh!


Griffin: —it stinks. [Clint makes a disgusted sound] There’s a stink to it that, uh, it almo— almost seems supernatural, almost as if he’s been cursed, uh, on his hand.


Magnus: I mean, that’s pretty bad, I guess.


Hudson: Can I, let me try— can I have a whiff of your brand?


Magnus: Unfortunately, no. Um, there was a law passed that I was not allowed to remove my gauntlet.


Hudson: [crosstalk] I just made— I made myself very vulnerable just then.


[Justin laughs]


Taako: [amused] Let the man smell your hand!


Merle: [crosstalk] Smell his hand. Give him your hand.


Magnus: I, um, I can’t do that. I’m not at that point in my therapy yet.


Hudson: [annoyed] Well, god, fine!


Griffin: He says, and, uh, takes up your weapons. Are you handing your weapons to him or not?


Travis: Yes!


Griffin: Okay. Uh.


Clint: Yeah, I’ll give him Smasher and Little Choppy.


Justin: And I cast, just as he’s leaving, I cast, uh, Prestidigitation on Travis’s hands to give them a terrible odor.


Griffin: Okay.


Hudson: [startled] Oh my god!


Griffin: He says.


Hudson: Wh— how did that— can you control your hand stink? It’s almost as if you’ve just emitted a cloud—


Magnus: [crosstalk] There’s a valve on the glove.


Hudson: Oh, terrific! Is that like a— ooh, is that like a crime-fighting tool?


Magnus: No.


Hudson: Like, like stinky hand knock-out gas, and you shoot it out of your finger.


Magnus: It’s more just, like, a relationship-ender.


Hudson: Oh. Well, not for me, man.


[laughter]


Magnus: Wait, wait, did you find women who were into this? Is there a chatroom I can join?


Hudson: No, I’m just saying I’m feeling— I’m feeling you. As a buddy. As a friend. Anyway, your weapons will be waiting for you when you, uh, when we reach Neverwinter. Until then, maybe keep the valve closed ‘cause not everyone’s gonna— not everyone likes getting high on your own supply.


Magnus: Got it.


Griffin: Uh, and he walks into the engine compartment, and the door slams closed, and you hear a heavy clunk! And, uh, yeah. That’s it for the engineer character. What did you guys think of him? [laughter] Scale of— scale of one to ten.


Clint: I liked— I thought he had good motivation, I thought, uh, his character development was good.


Griffin: So, walking through the passenger car, you only see three other passengers on this ride. And they’re not sitting together, they don’t seem to know each other, they’re not conversing, they’re all just sort of doing their own little things. Uh, one of them is a stout, dwarven woman, uh, with the largest muscles you’ve ever seen on a living person. Um, she looks kind of—


Travis: [crosstalk] Wait, hold on! Magnus is in the room.


Griffin: Well, yeah. Deal with it.


Travis: Oh. Oh no.


Griffin: Uh, she looks— she’s kind of fidgeting, looking out the window. She just kind of looks a little bit uncomfortable. Um, sitting about two rows behind her and on the other side of the car is a young boy, who is wearing a fancy-boy suit—


Travis: Mhm.


Griffin: —and a fa— a blue fancy boy cap. Uh, dressed up very fanci— fancily.


Travis: Can I roll, um, insight to see how fancy?


Griffin: Yeah, sure, if you want.


Travis: Uh, that’s a 17. Oh, sorry, yes. Uhh—


Griffin: Oh my god, yeah. Make sure to really add this up—


Travis: Oh, it’s a 16, it’s a -1.


Griffin: Oh, a -1. Then you die. [laughter] God, Travis, if only you— in trying to discern his fanciness, your nose just starts bleeding, and you fall over and—


Clint: You’re fancied to death.


Griffin: Uh, yeah no, he’s fresh to death. He, he looks, he looks very fancy. Um, like a schoolboy, but fancy. And he’s reading a book like a schoolboy would do, and he’s a fancy young man. And then, sitting a couple rows behind him is a, uh, round young human man with a great big bushy beard.


Justin: [crosstalk] A great big bushy beard!


Griffin: And uh, he’s wearing some sort of trashy wizard’s robes. They’re not as, uh—


Justin: [crosstalk] You mean like bad, or you mean like trashy sexy? [laughs] Some mesh in the sleeves—


Griffin: [crosstalk] It’s both, actually. It’s—


Travis: [crosstalk] You can see the electric tape over his nipples.


Griffin: [crosstalk] No, it’s— I mean, it’s— [Clint laughs] it covers all his essential, uh, oils, but he— It does say “Juicy” on the back of the robe, [laughter] where his butt would be. Um—


Travis: Are we on a train to Jersey?


Griffin: Yes. Neverwinter is in New Jersey. Not a lot of people, um, know that. This is, like, an alt-America sort of like Dark Tower, um, I should’ve pointed out, so, um. No, that’s not true. Please don’t buy into that at all. Uh, yeah, that is the passenger car as you continue walking back to, you know, set down your personal effects in your sleeper car.


Griffin: As you, as you pass through the chamber connecting the two, uh, cars, you open up the door to the sleeper car, and another elf is there. Another fairly tall elven man is there, wearing the garb, wearing the uniform for the Rockport Limited. Um, he is also wearing a sort of technicolor bowtie that’s prismatic and, and shifting in hues. Um, and he looks down at you, and he comes up with a voice for himself very quickly.


[Clint laughs]


Elven Man: [in a low, thick voice] Hello. Oh, new passengers. I… haven’t met you. Welcome—


Griffin: What is this?


Travis: [mimicking the voice] “I instantly regret this voice.”


[Clint laughs]


Griffin: [working on the voice] “Mm, hello, welcome.” There it is.


[laughter]


Travis: [crosstalk] He sounds like Mike Myers.


Clint: [crosstalk] Sounds like Vincent Price.


Griffin: I found it.


Elven Man: Hello, welcome to the train.


Justin: “I’m Mike Myers as Lorne Michaels having a stroke.”


[Clint laughs]


Elven Man: [slow and deadpan] I’m doing my best. Welcome to— [Justin mocks his voice] Are you making fun of my voice?


Justin: [crosstalk] He’s melting!


Magnus: [crosstalk] He’s getting sadder in front of our eyes!


Justin: Who dumped a bucket of water on this guy?


[laughter]


Elven Man: How could I be sad? I’ve got new passengers— [someone mocks his voice again] Goddammit, can I talk? [laughter] Welcome to the train. My name’s Jenkins. Can I help you find your seats, or your, where to put your luggage, man, I don’t know.


Taako: I like your tie, Jenkins. Tell me about it.


Jenkins: This is my, my flair. We all get to wear one piece of flair on Tuesdays.


Magnus: What does it do?


Taako: What’s it do? What’s its thing?


Magnus: Tell me all about it, stud!


Jenkins: [amused] It looks amazing.


Magnus: Well, yes!


Jenkins: It doesn’t possess any curative properties, or, what— Who are you?


Magnus: Does it spin?


Jenkins: Stop, stop.


Magnus: I wanna unfold this bowtie thing.


Jenkins: Wait, stop. Let’s start over. Hello, I’m Jenkins. [laughter] I’m the wizard attendant on the Rockport Limited. I will, uh, help you with your bags—


Travis: I reach out slowly to touch his bowtie.


Jenkins: [awkwardly] Oh-kay, you can… touch it, I guess. [laughter] Light surface—


Magnus: [crosstalk] You can— you can keep going.


Jenkins: Um, a light surface level touch would be preferred. [laughter]


Travis: I really g— I really get in there.


Merle: Are you an attendant who’s a wizard, or are you an attendant for a wizard?


Jenkins: I am a wizard who attends to your needs on the train. You let me know if you have any questions. I can take your bags, and I have a few other luxury services I can provide.


Griffin: My thr— voice is, like, shot from this weekend, and it’s really— I, like— we have to record all of—


Travis: [crosstalk] No one made you do this voice, Griffin!


Griffin: This needs to— I’m just saying, we need to do a series wrap on Jenkins in this episode, [laughter] ‘cause I don’t think I’m gonna be able to do him next week. Um—


Travis: [laughing] I kill Jenkins!


[laughter]


Jenkins: Thank you; you’ve set— [Travis laughs] Uh, I have a few luxury services I can provide to you. I can take you into one of our pleasure rooms.


Taako: [awkwardly] I’m cool.


Magnus: [laughs] No thank you!


Jenkins: It’s not—


Merle: [crosstalk] Nope! Pass.


Jenkins: Oh, gentlemen, it’s not nearly as salacious as I made it sound. It’s just when I say things with my voice, it always sounds like I’m talking about slow sex.


[laughter]


Magnus: Jenkins, I’ve just noticed, I think your bowtie is too tight!


Travis: I loosen it slightly.


Magnus: Does that help?


Jenkins: [in Griffin’s voice] Oh my god, thank you, guys! [laughter and clapping] A witch kissed me, and it cursed my— [more laughter] [back to Jenkins’ voice] No, that’s a joke, this is—


Clint: Can we level up for that? That was great.


Jenkins: I feel very comfortable with this voice now, yes.


[Justin laughs]


Travis: Now it’s like an old pair of shoes.


[laughter]


Griffin: Um, he helps you all unload your luggage into your sleeper car. Uh, there’s uh, there’s a triple bunk bed. [laughs] It’s basically like a big ol’ neapolitan ice cream sandwich of dudes, [laughter] and you feel like the smell in there is gonna get pretty ripe pretty fast. It’s not a very big car, um, but he helps you load up, and uh, starts to show you around the train. Uh, so he says:


Jenkins: This is the sleeper car. Well, hold on. Sorry, I hit my R very hard there. [Travis laughs] So, uh, this of course is the sleeper car. You will, uh, you can rest in here. The trip will take about three hours once the train departs, which it should any minute, so you won’t need a full night’s sleep. But if you’re feeling nappy, this is a place where, historically, people sleep.


Magnus: Jenkins, can I ask you a question?


Jenkins: I’m not finished.


[Clint laughs]


Magnus: Okay.


Jenkins: What you’re going to want to do is place the pillow underneath your head.


Taako: We know how to go to sleep, darling!


[laughter]


Jenkins: Just checking. I— I’m here to serve, to attend to your every need. So, you’re all set on blankets.


Merle: Yeah—


Magnus: [crosstalk] We actually need extra pillows. I sleep with a pillow between my knees and between my elbows and behind my  head and under my feet, if I could get—


Griffin: So we’re, we’re gonna do this now, huh? [Travis laughs] We’re gonna air this right now?


Travis: [crosstalk] I prescribe to the Griffin McElroy sleeping method.


Griffin: I need to build myself a fucking exosuit of pillows, [laughter] and I’m not, like, I’m not, like, proud of it. Like, yeah, I am embarrassed about it, and it makes trips with my family a living hell.


Justin: Yeah.


Travis: [laughs] A pillowy hell!


Justin: You go into a room you’re sharing with Griffin, then you look for a pillow, there’s just none there. He’s absorbed them all.


Griffin: Yeah. I need them for strength and energy. Uh, Jenkins says, uh:


Jenkins: Now, of course, the car that you passed through coming in was the passenger car, and that is a car that is great for sitting.


Magnus: Now, Jenkins, I saw a—


Merle: [crosstalk] Thank you, Captain Obvious.


Magnus: I saw a dwarven woman in there, and I swear I recognized her, and I can’t remember her name, and I don’t want that awkward moment, you know what I mean? Do you have any information on her?


Jenkins: I’m not supposed to share privileged information—


Magnus: [crosstalk] Come on, Jenkins…


Jenkins: —regarding the identity of—


Merle: [whispering] Give him some— Give him a bribe! Give him some money!


Jenkins: [crosstalk] We run a very discreet travel service, um…


Magnus: Jenkins…


Jenkins: …for…


Merle: Jenkins!


Magnus & Merle: Come on!


Merle: Jenkins…


Taako: Remember the thing with the tie?


Magnus: Remember…?


Jenkins: When you touched my tie despite my request that you did not, and—


Taako: [crosstalk] No, we freed you—


Merle: [crosstalk] And it helped you out and felt good.


Jenkins: [crosstalk] That is a—


Taako: [crosstalk] We freed that beautiful instrument of yours.


Merle: Jenky…


Jenkins: [amused] Okay, okay, but you didn’t hear this from me.


[Clint chuckles]


Magnus: Okay.


Jenkins: Uh, have you ever heard of uh, Jess the Beheader?


Magnus: Oh!


Merle: Hmm.


Magnus: Uh huh.


Merle: WWE, right?


Jenkins: She is a famous Midworld Wrestling Federation star. Of course, I don’t know why they call it wrestling because it is a blood sport. Uh, th— there’s not much grappling as there is uh, you know, deadly melee. But, um.


Merle: You wrestle with your conscience after you kill somebody.


Jenkins: Yes, and she has a very particular way of dispatching her foes.


Taako: [crosstalk] Let me guess!


Magnus: [crosstalk] Is it possibly—


Jenkins: What’s that?


Magnus: She un-heads them.


Taako: She cuts their butt off.


Jenkins: Yes. Well.


[Clint laughs]


Taako: Did I get it, Jenkins?


Jenkins: Yes, you got it. Ten—


Taako: [crosstalk] Just between us wizards.


Jenkins: You just— a hundred trivia points to you, my good sir.


[laughter]


Travis: “You get a free round of shots in the bar car.”


Jenkins: Uh, I don’t know what brings her on the train. I do know that I did have to carry her axe into the back car, and boy howdy, did that thing weigh a metric ton. Uh, but I don’t mean to complain. I’m happy to do the work.


Travis: “It’s not where I thought I’d end up in life, but you know, life’s a continuing, evolving adventure.”


Jenkins: I— I love life on the rails. It’s— you meet a lot of interesting people.


Taako: Did you carry the axe back there?


Jenkins: Yes.


Taako: [quietly] Kind of a shitty wizard.


[snorting]


Jenkins: I’m… sorry, sir?


Taako: [laughs] Nothing.


Jenkins: No, tell— no—


Taako: That’s second-level stuff, dude!


[laughter]


Jenkins: No, come on, let’s— let’s have a wizard chat. And I’d like to hear—


Taako: [crosstalk, amused] You should get out there— you should get out there and level up, I’m saying!


Jenkins: [crosstalk] What am I going to do— what am I going to do, burn one of my daily slots [Travis laughs] on making an axe levitate?


Taako: Oh, sorry, I didn’t realize life on the trails was so demanding you had to have pyrotechnics at your fingertips twenty-four sev’.


Merle: [laughs] Or you could just do what I do, which is have unlimited spell slots and use every spell in the book!


Travis: [crosstalk] It’s called cheating!


Jenkins: [crosstalk] I’ve heard of you.


Taako: From every discipline!


Jenkins: You are of the god kind.


[Travis laughs]


Griffin: He says, uh:


Jenkins: Now, behind the sleeping car— sleepy car— [amused] Sometimes I call it the sleepy car. Behind the sleepy car is our dining car. You can go there for, uh—


Magnus: Peace!


Jenkins: Okay.


Travis: Magnus leaves.


Jenkins: Well, we can walk with you. We can do like a walk and— Nope, you’re just going by—


Merle: Nope, he’s gone.


Jenkins: Well, to you two—


Travis: Now, Griffin, I need you to describe both scenes simultaneously.


[laughter]


Griffin: Um. I won’t do that. I’m very, very tired.


Travis: I pop back into the sleeping car.


Magnus: You guys! The craziest thing just happened in there! [laughter] Let me tell you about it.


Griffin: Travis is taking control.


[laughter]


Clint: Magnus has turned into Kramer.


Magnus: It was ridiculous! They just handed me 2,000 gold when I walked in!


[Clint laughs]


Jenkins: Uh, behind the sleeping car is the dining car. You can go there for one free complimentary meal of your choice. [amused] I’m also the chef on this train, so I’ll make sure to— [Clint giggles] Now that I can put a name to a face, I’ll make sure to bake a lot of love into whatever you order.


[Travis laughs]


Taako: You saving your spells for that? [crunching noises]


Jenkins: What’re you eating?


Travis: And then— and then he eats a carrot in his face.


[laughter]


Taako: Hardtack.


Travis: That’s Taako’s— that’s Taako’s mic drop.


[Justin laughs]


Taako: I’m eating hardtack. Life’s hard on the road.


[Travis laughs]


Griffin: The only time that you’re allowed to eat food while recording this podcast is if it’s foley work for actual in-game eating. So I’m just assuming that Taako’s, like, having a party right now on some baby carrots.


Justin: [laughs] He’s eating some hardtack.


Griffin: What is hardtack?


Justin: You know, like Johnnycakes?


Travis: You know.


Clint: [laughing] No, that’s not hardtack!


Travis: It is! They’re seabiscuits.


Justin: [crosstalk] You know, hardtack. Like, really hard— really hard bread that they had during the Civil War. I’m surprised you didn’t read up on this before we recorded.


Travis: [crosstalk] And then they used it to put stuff up on the wall.


Justin: [crosstalk] I told you I was gonna do a whole hard—


Griffin: [crosstalk] You were gonna have a— Justin’s gonna go on another hardtack run.


[Clint laughs]


Travis: You gotta edit this one out too, Griffin.


Jenkins: [weird voice] Uh, and then behind that is of course the cargo car. You should’ve been walked through our security protocols at the station.


Griffin: Wait, what am I doing? What’s this fucking voice?


Clint: You’ve gone into Mr. Belvedere.


Jenkins: And then of course behind—


Griffin: What— what was it?


[laughter]


Travis: It’s a moving target!


Clint: [crosstalk] It was Vincent Price!


Jenkins: And of course behind—


Clint: [imitating the character Droopy] And a little Droopy Dog, too.


Travis: [also imitating Droopy] “I’m sad.”


[Justin laughs]


Travis: [still imitating Droopy] “I’m Jenkins.” That’s how you sound!


Jenkins: And of course—


[laughter]


Travis: [Droopy voice] “Back there’s the cargo car.”


Justin: [crosstalk, impersonating Jenkins] “I’m sort— I’m sort of the Mel Blanc of the train. [laughter] Keep everybody in stitches. All these different characters. Which one’s the real me? You’ll never know.”


Jenkins: The three of you are being very cruel to me.


[laughter]


Travis: [Droopy voice] “I’m sad now.”


Clint: [Droopy voice] “You’re making me very, very unhappy.”


{26:37}


Jenkins: [choking up] I— I live to serve the people on this train, [laughter] and I’ve never been treated like this in my life.


Justin: Smokin’!


[laughter]


Griffin: This is not— this is not out-of-character laughing. [laughter] This whole time, everything you’ve done in the past two minutes has been to this man’s face. You’re just standing— oh—


[laughter]


Jenkins: Do you want— do you even want the rest of the tour?


Merle: Yeah, I—


Magnus: Jenkins.


Travis: I hug him.


Justin: [crosstalk] Wait wait wait. If this has all been in character, are you telling me that this person Jenkins, [squeaking with laughter] who is having this, like, incredible mental breakdown, where, where he couldn’t remember what his own voice sounded like?


[laughter]


Justin: We’re just—


Travis: [crosstalk] It was a very metaphysical moment for— “Who am I???”


Clint: [crosstalk] It’s a psychotic incident!


Justin: This is kayfabe, I need to know that Jenkins was having this breakdown right in front of us! “What is— no, that’s not it. It’s up here!”


Travis: “Who am I? What am Jenkins??”


[laughter]


Travis: I— I hold Jenkins.


[laughter]


Jenkins: No, it’s— no. I’m quite— I’m a big brave boy.


[laughter]


Magnus: [crosstalk] You’re my big brave boy, Jenkins.


Jenkins: [crosstalk] I can stand up to the slings and arrows that you fling at me. I just— I would just like to finish the tour and get back to work please.


Taako: [laughing] No, by all means!


Magnus: Jenkins, we’re just trying to make you strong, brother.


Jenkins: [quickly] Behind the dining car is the cargo car. I’m done. Have a good day. Let me know if you need anything, but… but don’t expect a quick response. [laughter] Of course, of course, of course it will be a quick response. I’m sorry, I can’t let my—


Merle: [crosstalk] How do we, how do we summon you, Jenkins?


Jenkins: Well, the train has four goddamn cars, so just open all the doors and yell.


Magnus: So, is it like a magic word, or like a whistle? Is there a bell somewhere?


Jenkins: Yes. I— a witch kissed me and cursed me [Travis laughs] so that anytime anybody yells a secret word, I have to attend to their every need, and that word is my fucking name, Jenkins.


[Justin laughs]


Magnus: Got it!


Merle: J— Jenkins, would you open the window, please?


Taako: Careful, don’t burn a spell on it. [snickering]


Jenkins: I, yes, here.


Griffin: He opens the window.


Jenkins: Is that good?


Merle: Perfect. Perfect.


Griffin: Uh, you feel the train—


Travis: [crosstalk, whispering] Griffin, Griffin, out-of-character, this is a great time to come up with uh, a Jenkins catchphrase. I feel like he’s gonna be a fan-favorite. Maybe like as he leaves, have him say something like sassy.


Griffin: [crosstalk] Sure.


Justin: How about this? What do you think about this one? …“Dy-no-mite!”


Griffin: Yeah.


Travis: I like that one.


Griffin: Okay, so that’s the one that I’m gonna use, definitely. Uh, the— the train lurches and starts to move forward, and Jenkins, uh, looks out the window he just opened, and says, um:


Jenkins: There’s a man standing in front of the train, which is peculiar. Um, if you’ll excuse me, I will need to go and handle that situation. Excuse me.


Magnus: [crosstalk] Oh no!


Merle & Magnus: Call him Tom.


Merle: Call him Tom.


Jenkins: Sorry? How do you know it’s Tom Bodett out there?


Merle: Guess.


Magnus: It’s always Tom Bodett.


Taako: You think this is spell slot worthy, or?


[Clint laughs]


Jenkins: Okay, I’m out. Jinx… Jenk— What was it?


Merle: “Dy-no-mite.”


Jenkins: Sayonara! No, that sucks.


[Travis laughs]


Magnus: You’ll get it. You’ll find it.


Griffin: He says— he turns to you and closes the door. Uh, but then he cracks it back open and pokes his face in, and he says,


Jenkins: [deadpan] Smell you later.


[laughter]


Clint: And a T-shirt is born!


{ad break 30:16 — 36:15}


Clint: Anybody tired?


Travis: I could take a short rest.


Justin: Let’s take a short rest.


Griffin: Okay, you take a 15-minute power nap—


Travis: Like, a Pzizz.


Griffin: You take a Pzizz right there, as the— the train uh, departs, from uh, Rockport Station. Uh… and— and as it departs, it has started to, uh, begin its journey through the Teeth, the mountain range that connects the two major landmasses.


Travis: Next it’ll be the tongue, and then the throat.


[laughter]


Griffin: Uh—


Clint: Here it comes!


Travis: And these are the enunciators!


Griffin: [crosstalk] And then through— and then through the gully works.


Clint: Let’s head into the car, so we can talk to those guys.


Griffin: Okay, um, you go into the, uh, you go into the passenger car. Uh, nobody is actually there right now. Uh, you hear the sound of— You hear somebody from the, uh, car behind you, from the dining car. Uh, you hear a voice going like:


Voice: Oh, wow! Oh man!


Travis: Oh, we run in there! I wanna know what it is.


Clint: Let’s go into the dining car.


Griffin: [amused] You go into the dining car, where you hear, uh, these, uh, exclamations. The dining car is the fanciest car on the train. There are a couple of, uh, crystal chandeliers hanging from the ceiling, over eight or nine you know, five-seat tables that are all very intricately set with crimson tablecloths and gold cutlery on them. Uh, there are large windows overlooking the uh, the— well, the nothing. You’re going through a mountain. Uh, but there are actually some, either magical or just sort of bioluminescent, lights that you will pass by every few seconds or so. Just to let you know that you are making progress, so somehow they’ve— they’ve set up a, uh, some interior lighting inside of this train route.


Griffin: Uh, in this car, you don’t see Jess the Beheader. But you do see the fancy boy, he’s sitting at a table in the corner, uh, still reading his book, just sort of surveying the scene. And you see on one of the walls, on the far side of the room is almost like a— a little booth, like a, almost like a confessional chamber that has its door open. Uhh. And, uh, you see Jenkins standing outside of it, seems to be channeling some sort of spell onto the chamber, and then emerging from the chamber is the Juicy Wizard, uh, who says, uh:


Juicy Wizard: Man, that was amazing! I’ve never felt so relaxed in my whole life!


Griffin: And, uh, Jenkins says:


Jenkins: Mm, I’m glad that you enjoyed that. I— I live to serve, and—


Justin: [crosstalk] It’s Seaman, Griffin. I just realized.


Griffin: That’s what it was. It was Seaman. He’s uh— his eyes are still kind of red, and the guy, the Hedge Wizard asks,


Juicy Wizard: Hey man, are you alright? You— you seem like you’re upset.


Griffin: And Jenkins says,


Jenkins: No, I don’t want to talk about it.


[someone snorts]


Clint: “I met these three jerks—”


Magnus: [crosstalk] Jenkins!


Jenkins: [crosstalk] Oh god…


Magnus: [crosstalk] What up, dog?


Jenkins: That’s them. Hello, how was your nap? Is everything good— Do you need any—


Magnus: [crosstalk] I had a good nappy.


Jenkins: That’s great to hear. Maybe you were being very fussy before because you hadn’t had your—


Magnus: [crosstalk] I was a fussy baby, am I right, Jenkins?


Jenkins: So just a real quick— I— first of all, do you need anything, but before that, do you have maybe anything you wanna tell me?


Magnus: Still dig the bow tie.


Taako: Jenkins… I'm really sorry… about threatening Tom Bodett earlier. When we were back in the village, I just wanted to see if—


Merle: [crosstalk] Yeah, I feel pretty bad about that.


Magnus: [crosstalk] Is he okay?


Taako: Is he doing alright, do you think?


Jenkins: Uh, are you speaking about the Tom Bodett who tried to kill himself in front of our train? Uh—


Taako: Hey Jenkins!


Jenkins: Yes.


Taako: Great choo-choo by the way. Uh, quick question, ah, you mentioned the pleasure room, and we got a little weird about it, but now that I'm more relaxed, and sort of comfortable in my own sexual truth right now, can you talk to me about—?


Magnus: [Taako voice] I just wanna chase my bliss?


Taako: I'm just trying to chase my bliss, can you tell me about the— the pleasure room…?


Griffin: Uh, he says, uh:


Jenkins: Well, you're looking at it! Uh, it's not this train car, we don't—


Taako: You just opened your shirt! I don't understand—


Jenkins: Oh, I'm sorry, I had an itch on my tummy, lemme get that. And… got it. Okay, uh, buttoning back up now, slowly, uh, and we are fully dressed. This is uh, the— the pleasure chamber, it is not a sex thing— eh, maybe it can be. Uh. It is actually a type of magic I specialize in, uh, called a port, and I can make it so that when you enter this chamber, you can be in any room, anywhere in the world that you want to be, just a quick getaway while we’re travelling through this rather bleak mountain environment.


Taako: How does that work? Tell—


Travis: I lay my hand— I lay my hand on Jenkins’ shoulder and say:


Magnus: There’s nowhere I’d rather be than here, my man.


Travis: And I squeeze gently.


Jenkins: So you don’t want uh, a trip in the pleasure chamber.


Magnus: No, I do. I do.


Taako: I uh, didn’t te—


Jenkins: You literally— you literally just said that you’d rather not be—


Magnus: Listen Jenkins, we all said some stuff.


Taako: Listen, how does it work? Do we tell you where we wanna go, or—


Jenkins: You tell me where you want to go, there are some restrictions, it’s a— it’s a kind of teleportation. Uh, but you can only open up a pleasure room to a room that only has one entrance and exit, and that is what you step through, through this port, you— you can’t leave—


Magnus: Is it an illusion?


Jenkins: Uh, it is— no, it is— it is a type of teleportation, but it is a very limited type. You can't take anything from the room, if you leave something behind, it will be destroyed, so don’t do that. Make sure you have your belongings with you—


Taako: [crosstalk] Where did, um, where did Juicy go?


Jenkins: He went to one of our, uh, special luxury pleasure rooms we have pre-fabricated. Uh, it— it recreates the beaches off the Sword Coast— uh, you— you know the ones.


Magnus: Oh yeah.


Taako: Right.


Jenkins: Where the palm trees sway, and—


Magnus: Oh, yea yea yeah.


Jenkins: The beach babies are… they are extant.


Merle: Ben Pressler’s there…


Jenkins: Uh, he— he wanted a tropical getaway, and so we hooked him up with our tropical getaway room, but you don’t have to use one of our prefabricated rooms, if you can think of any room in the world that you wanna be in, uh, [Magnus: What, can we—] take your pick, and— sorry, what?


Magnus: Can we say like we want to go visit somebody, but we don’t know what room they’re in? It’s gotta be a specific room?


Jenkins: You gotta tell me the room unfortunately, you can’t just say, “I wanna be in a bank vault,” not that would it matter, ‘cause you couldn’t take the money anyway, but.


Magnus: Could you recreate our— our sleeping car?


Jenkins: I… guess so? that would be kind of crazy… I’m— I’m not— I’m not creating anything, you’re actually going to these rooms.


Magnus: Mhmm.


Merle: Alright, I’d like to try it out!


Jenkins: Yeah, please!


Merle: I have a room I’d like to go to!


Jenkins: Oh— what are you—


Merle: Can I go— can I—


Clint: I’m still trying to do the Scottish thing!


Griffin: Kind of!


Merle: [exaggerated Scottish accent] Alright! I’ll go—


Griffin: Nope. And I’m not complaining! I’m just like, pick one!


Justin: If he— if he does— If you do that voice, I’m gonna have him port you to the pleasure room in the inky blackness of space.


Merle: [normal voice] Alright. I’d like to go to the, uh—


Taako: What happened to your accent?


[Griffin laughs]


Merle: Do I have to— [milder Scottish accent] You told me to stop doing it, dammit!


Taako: No, Justin told you to stop doing it.


Merle: Oh.


Taako: Taako’s a fan.


Merle: Alright, here’s what I want to do. I want to go to—


Jenkins: I thought your name was Justin.


Merle: I’d like to go to the room where uh, where our uh, my package is. I want to see my package.


Jenkins: Are you talking about the cargo car, which is literally—


Merle: Yes.


Griffin: And he points to the left—


Jenkins: Through this door, right here, you want to use my incredible teleportation magic to go into the room that is adjacent to the room we’re currently in?


Merle: No.


Justin: And also you can’t do that—


Merle: Well when you put it that way, no.


Jenkins: Yeah when I put it any way, then no.


Merle: Here, alright alright, I want to go to the engineer’s room. I want to go where he is [Jenkins: That’s not—] [louder] behind a locked door that I can’t go through!


Jenkins: I preferred the other voice. Um—


Merle: It’s just a little bit Scrooge McDucky isn’t it?


[noises of agreement, giggling]


Travis: Where’s Flintlock Gongold or whatever the fuck his name is?


Griffin: It was Flintlock Glompgold, Trav, you got it. Uhhm.


Jenkins: Unfortunately, no, I won’t do that. Like it’s, like, a security protocol for the train, like, why—


Merle: You said anywhere!


Jenkins: Any room in the world, any luxurious— a day spa, a botanical garden, a—


Magnus: [crosstalk] You know what, Jenko?


Jenkins: Yes?


Magnus: I’m gonna take you up on that later, dog. For right now, I’m gonna get my grub on.


Jenkins: Ok, if you say so. But if you change your mind… Can I entice either of the two of you?


Merle: I don’t think— I don’t want to waste it.


Justin: Yeah, I don’t feel like we’re grounded enough yet to kind of know what we’re doing here.


Merle: [crosstalk] Let us have a little nosh, and we’ll get back to ye.


Jenkins: Okay…


Travis: I go sit next to the fancy lad.


Griffin: Ok, uhh, are— are the other two following suit?


Clint: Yes, I want to walk up to the fancy lad and I want to say to him,


Merle: You’re a fancy lad.


Clint: and I pull out my Xtreme Teen Bible,


Merle: You know, being fancy is good, [giggling] but sometimes it’s better to be Pan-cy and not just fancy. Let me read to you about Pan from my Xtreme Teen Bible, what do you say?


Fancy Lad: [in a young, high voice] Uh, hello sir. Thank you for the evangelism, but I’m affiliated already and I appreciate it. And my dad says that I sh— I’m not allowed to talk to people who worship pagan gods.


[long pause]


Merle: Well, uh, that’s fine, I guess. Uh, but you know if you’re gonna stay close-minded and you’re not gonna be open to new ideas, you’re not going to grow up to be a very well-rounded young man.


Fancy Lad: Ok sir, I— I apologize if I was being rude before. Please tell me the good news.


Merle: Well, I’ll tell you what. Let me leave you this Pan Chick tract, and you read it—


Fancy Lad: Oh great! R— reading’s my favorite.


Griffin: He says.


Merle: I noticed you were reading a book, so you read this— this tract, it’s by this man named Chick. And it’s all about Pan’s tiny shoes, and it will lead you to make the right decision.


Fancy Lad: Thank you very much—


Travis: [crosstalk] This’s been some solid Dungeons and Dragons-ing.


Fancy Lad: What is— what is your name—


Travis: Really moving the story forward!


[Griffin laughs]


Fancy Lad: My name—


Merle: I’m Brother— I’m Brother Leeman, just call me Brother Leeman.


Fancy Lad: Brother Leeman, hello. My name is Angus, I’m a little boy. I— Do you— I’m going to visit my grandpa in Neverwinter. Have you been to Neverwinter before?


Travis: I nudge— I nudge Taako.


Magnus: He’s the bad guy [Angus: [stammering] Excuse—] [whispering] We’ve, that’s definitely the bad guy, that’s definitely the bad guy!


Angus: Excuse me, sirs. My grandpa says it’s rude to whisper, especially on a train. My name’s Angus!


Magnus: We had to say dirty words, Angus, dirty words that you can’t hear. Adult words.


Merle: [crosstalk] Hi Angus!


Angus: My grandpa s— my grandpa says swears are not—


Taako: Hi Angus, where are you from?


Angus: Me? I’m not allowed to say.


Magnus: Are you from Phandalin?


Angus: No, where is that?


Magnus: [crosstalk] Good. Doesn’t matter.


Angus: I’ve never even heard of Phandalin.


Magnus: And you never will.


Taako: And you never will.


Angus: I like to read my books because it— it’s like I get to go on a journey in my mind!


Magnus: [whispering] Taako! It’s definitely—


Angus: What are your names?


Magnus: [whispering] What little kid likes reading? It’s him!


Angus: Sirs, what are your names?


Merle: Well, um, like I said—


Angus: I already heard your name, sir. Thank you for telling me it.


Merle: [crosstalk] Oh, right, sorry.


[Justin laughs]


Magnus: I’m— I’m Diddley.


Taako: I’m Justin.


Angus: Diddley and Justin, those are two fabulous names. My name’s Angus!


Magnus: What’s your last name, Angus?


Angus: McDonald.


Magnus: [chuckles] Angus McDonald, you say?


Merle: Angus, do you like magic tricks?


Angus: I do. I like them very much, my grandpa said he would take me to one in Neverwinter. He would take me— He told me—


Magnus: What’s your grandpa’s name?


Angus: My grandpa told me, he said, “I’m going to take you to a magic trick!” It didn’t make a lot of sense—


Magnus: Angus, are you off-put by three grown men standing over you, asking you a bunch of questions?


Angus: No, I was hoping I would meet people and make friends on the train.


Merle: Even though you’re not allowed to talk to ‘em? That’s pretty interesting!


Angus: Well, strangers aren’t strangers anymore once you’ve talked to them and learned their names.


Magnus: Do you want to go to the pleasure room with me?


[Clint laughs]


Angus: I already went to the pleasure room. I went to my dad’s library. Did I say my dad? I meant my grandpa.


Magnus: What’s your grandpa’s name?


[Clint laughs]


Angus: My grandpa forgot his name. He’s very old.


Magnus: Wait, but you also forgot it? You never knew it, Angus?


[Justin laughs]


Angus: The memory of my grandpa’s name died long before I was born.


Travis: [laughs] It’s a word not spoken since the birth of dragons.


[Justin continues laughing, barely stifled]


Angus: He prefers— He prefers grandpa. I call him grandpa, ‘cause he’s my grandpa! I love him.


Magnus: [whispering] This is definitely a setup. He’s the bad guy!


Merle: Well let me show him my magic trick.


Justin: [still laughing] Just let it ride.


Merle: Let me show you this magic trick, alright?


Angus: Ok, sir.


Merle: It— it’s called Zone of Truth. And when I cast Zone of Truth, well, you’ll just have to see how cool it is.


Magnus: No wait!


Clint: Merle casts Zone of Truth.


Angus: My— my brain feels like it's tingling. I feel like I’m sneezing, but long. Like a long sneeze.



[Travis laughs]


Merle: That’s the magic!


Angus: Is it— uh— it’s not a— I uh— ok!


Merle: Great!


Angus: I get a chance to roll and resist this, right?


Merle: Yes you do, you get to throw a charisma saving roll.


Griffin: Ok.


Travis: And— and Clinton, remind me, does this affect all of us in the zone?


Clint: No it’s just whoever I target it.


Travis: Oh thank Jesus.


Griffin: I don’t think that’s true.


Justin: I don’t actually think that’s accurate either.


Griffin: I think the Zone of Truth is a zone. Otherwise it would just be called Truth Beam— and you would hit it—


[Clint laughs]


Griffin: Uh, he rolled a 24.


Clint and Justin: What?


Griffin: And he—


Travis: No that’s too low, we were looking for a 25.


Angus: Hey, the tingles went away! That was a weird trick.


Magnus: Well, you’re growing up!


Justin: Can I— can I have a little side chat? If this fool just rolled a 24, he is, uhh, a really fucking bad guy. That’s like some mysterious shit.


Travis: [crosstalk, whispering] He’s the bad guy!


Griffin: That’s racist!


Travis: You can’t hear this, we’re whispering!


Griffin: Right.


Clint: [crosstalk] Nah, he— he heard us!


Justin: This is clearly out of character!


Griffin: Yeah, and this is out of character, too. I’m telling you you’re being racist right now. Just because someone rolls good, that makes them evil? It’s— it’s a luck-based—


Travis: Rolling good is a race, Griffin?


Griffin: It’s a luck-based mechanism—


Travis: I’ve seen the dice!


Clint: How can y— how can you roll a 20-sided dice and get a 24?


Griffin: He had a lotta charisma. He’s a charismatic young man.


Travis: [laughing] He’s— he’s in the Boy Scouts of America, he volunteers at his local soup kitchen, he’s a great kid. [whispering] He’s definitely the bad guy!


Clint: Magnus, kill him.


Travis: Well—


Clint: Kill him.


Travis: Hold on, he’s still a kid.


Griffin: [crosstalk] Well don’t— he’s a little boy.


Justin: We’re not going to kill a little boy.


Angus: Pardon me, sirs, do you have any fruit leather? I ran— I just plum ran out.


Magnus: Alright, Angus. We’re going to go talk to Juicy Wizard.


Angus: Uh. Okay. I had a good chat with you and I liked—


Magnus: Okay, we’re done.


Angus: Okay, sirs, well thank you very much for take—


Magnus: Angus! Take the hint.


[Clint laughs]


Angus: ‘Kay, bye, just thanks for the company. Bye!


Griffin: As you turn to walk away from him, you swear that you see the color of his eyes just turn blood red, [laughter] and— No, I’m fucking with you. That’s not true. Umm, you’re going to talk to Juicy Wizard?


Travis: Mhm.


Justin: [quietly] No—


Griffin: Ok, Juicy— Juicy Wizard is uh, sort of, uh, running his hands over the pleasure room chamber, like, just sort of eyeballing it. Like, studying it almost? And he’s like—


Juicy Wizard: [higher voice] Wow, this thing’s amazing. Don’t you guys love being on this train? This train’s the best!


Magnus: It’s pretty dope!


Juicy Wizard: Sorry, what are your names? I feel rude ‘cause I talked about how much I love this train before I introduced myself. And before you had a chance to introduce yourselves.


Magnus: Oh, uh, my name is Diddley.


Juicy Wizard: Diddley?


Magnus: Mhmm, Did— Diddley.


Juicy Wizard: Is that short for something?


Magnus: Bo-Diddley.


Juicy Wizard: Wouldn’t it— wouldn’t Bo be a much easier way to truncate that particular moniker?


Magnus: Way less fun, am I right, my man?


Juicy Wizard: You are so right! My name is—


Magnus: High five!


Juicy Wizard: Okay, let’s get that out there. Now I can tell you that my name is Graham. It’s not as fun. I still sound like the boy that you were just talking to—


[loud laughter and agreeing]


Magnus: You have a youthful energy about you!



Taako: Yeah. A very Angus-like vibe.


Graham: Uh, what are your guys’s names?



Merle: I’m Leeman. Leeman Kessler.


Graham: Hi, Leeman!


Merle: Hi, Graham.


Taako: Justin.


Graham: Uh, I can’t help but notice your garb. Your robe and your hat. Are you perchance a wizard too?

Taako: Yeah, man.


Travis: [crosstalk, laughs] Totally!


Taako: Don’t you recognize me from TV?


[someone makes a shushing sound]


Graham: Oh my god, is it really you?


Taako: Justin… is a stage name. No, wait. Strike that. Taako— How old are you, Graham?


Graham: Me?


Taako: Yep.


Graham: Oh, I’m— I’m, uh— Me? Oh, my age?


Taako: Yep.


Graham: Me? My age?


Griffin: I’m trying to—


Graham: [voice getting deeper] Me? My age? I’m an— I’m not a little boy, I’m—


Travis: He’s aging before our very eyes!


[laughter]


Taako: Okay, pipe down, Benjamin—


Graham: [crosstalk] I’m 36 years young!


Taako: Pipe down, Benjamin Button, let me lay it down for you. Um, I’m Taako the wizard from TV, yes, it’s great to meet you, too. Ah, but on the train, uhhh, when I’m in private life, I go by my real name, Justin Leeman.


Graham: Oh, that’s not that weird to have a train name. [laughter] A name— A name that you use, only on trains. Can I tell you something?


Taako: Yeah— [laughs]


Graham: [voice slightly deeper] Can I tell you— Can I tell you something?


Taako: Please.


Graham: [voice getting even deeper] Can I tell you something?


[Clint laughs]


Taako: Yeah, go— go nuts, my man.


Graham: Graham is my train name.


[Clint chuckles]


Taako: Do you have another real name?


Graham: Yeah! Per—


Taako: What is it?


Graham: Percy.


Merle: Good choice with Graham.


Taako: Yeah, Graham is way better.


Graham: It just feels like a thing that you would say on a train!


Taako: [crosstalk] Yeah, absolutely— it does. It feels like a train name, I was thinking that.


Merle: [crosstalk] Mhm.


Graham: [crosstalk] Check this out: “All aboard, Percy!” It just doesn’t work, does it? Anyway—


Taako: [crosstalk] Doesn’t work.


Graham: Graham’s— Graham’s my name.



Taako: Graham, what’s your school of magic, my man?


Graham: Uh, I’m undeclared. Working on it! It’s just—


Taako: [crosstalk] Oh, that’s fine. I remember that age.


Graham: [crosstalk] I move down one ladder, and it’s like—


Taako: [crosstalk] Sure.


Graham: [crosstalk] —Yeah, I— evocation’s pretty great, but I’d sure love to turn that apple into, uh, something else! See, I lack creativity, and that help— that hinders me.


Taako: That’s a hindrance, right, but you’ll find it. Don’t beat yourself up.


Graham: Will I?


Taako: Mm…


Clint: Hm.


Travis: He is 36.


Graham: What I really wanna do,


Griffin: He says, is, uh,


Graham: is I, uh, I would love to work on a train. It’s been my dream my whole life, is to be, be a work on a train, be whatever role they need me on, just to live life on the rails. It’s just someth— It’s just always appeal— This train is amazing! They have a pleasure chamber—


Taako: [crosstalk] Grab— Just grab a mop, my man! Grab life by the horns.


Graham: What do you— Just, like, start mopping? And just, like, see—


Taako: Just start mopping, yeah!


Graham: And see what happens?


Taako: Sure!


Graham: Is that the Secret?


Merle: Either that, or be a hobo.


Taako: YOLO.


Graham: I could be a yobo.


[Clint laughs]


Taako: A YOLO hobo.


Graham: I would have a hard time finding a place where I could squat on— on this particular train. But, uh—


Magnus: No, just go in the bathroom!


Graham: Gross. [Clint and Travis laugh] What a very gross thing. Yeah, I’ve— I actually— it’s uncomfortable because, um, I just applied to be on this train, and I didn’t get accepted. Um, and so I just sort of came on to shadow, uh, Jenkins, just to, like, see what I could learn. See what I could pick up—


Travis: I lean over to Taako.


Magnus: [whispering] Motive! That’s motive!


Taako: You’re a— You’re a worse wizard than Jenkins?


[Clint laughs]


Justin: I said that loud enough so that Jenkins could hear.


[laughter]


Jenkins: Why would you do that?


Taako: Oh, I didn’t want you to have to waste a spell slot trying to read my mind.


[Clint laughs]


Griffin: Um, he says—


Taako: I know how precious they are.


Graham: I feel like this conversation is starting to take a turn for the worse, so I’m gonna head out. Not leave, ‘cause the train’s going through a mountain, and I would die, [Clint and Justin laugh] but, you get the picture.


Taako: Sure, yeah.


Graham: It was great to meet you guys!


Griffin: Uh, and he walks [amused] just not very far away from you. Uh, he— he walks, uh, like eight feet away from you and sits down at a table by himself. It was very clear he didn’t have any pressing, like, engagement that he needed to get to. He just— I think he preferred not your company at that point.


Clint: We are really making friends on this train.


Justin: Influencing people.

Griffin: Previously on The Adventure Zone:


Hudson: My name is Hudson. I’m the engineer of this train.


Griffin: Walking through the passenger car, you only see three other passengers.


        Jenkins: Hello, I’m Jenkins.


[laughter]


        Jenkins: I’m the wizard attendant on the Rockport Limited.


Magnus: I saw a dwarven woman in there, and I swear I recognized her, but I can’t remember her name—


        Jenkins: Have you ever heard of… ah… Jess the Beheader?


              Magnus: Oh!


Merle: Mmm…


Jenkins: This is a… the, the Pleasure Chamber, it is not a sex thing, eh, maybe it can be. I can make it so that when you enter this chamber you can be in any room, anywhere in the world that you want to be.


Angus: Hello my name is Angus! I’m a little boy. I’m going to visit my grandpa in Neverwinter.


Graham: I can tell you that my name is Graham. It’s not as fun. I still sound like the boy that you were just talking to.


[laughter and agreeing]


Justin: I was about to say!


Magnus: You have a youthful energy about you.


Announcer: This week someone reaches their final destination: Heaven. All aboard The Adventure Zone!


[THEME MUSIC: "Déjà Vu" by Mort Garson (full song on YouTube)]


{1:25}


Griffin: Ah… The three of you have just been served a scrumptious brunch service by a very reluctant Jenkins.


Justin: Mmm, I’m still enjoying my pea pods.


Travis: Was it a savoury brunch or like a sweet brunch, are we looking, like—


Griffin: [over Travis] I- I think Justin just has decided what it is based on his Earth-world foley work. What do you— What is— What do you mean— Is that some edamame?


Justin: We’re having some pea pods and what’s that? Oh yeah, I filled my pockets with croutons.


[sounds of Justin eating something crunchy]


Clint: Oh man.


Travis: Mmm, Nice!


Griffin: Ok so—


Travis: Brunch croutons, waffle croutons.


Griffin: Just to check in on my real earth brother’s health and wellbeing… Daddy?


Clint: Yes.


Griffin: You- you’re in the same room as the J— as the J-man… Is he just eating croutons out of a bag right now?


Clint: No, no.


Justin: [at the same time as Clint] No, there are some pea pods. It’s a salad.


Clint: No, he’s got them on a plate. He’s got a plate full of delicious croutons and looks like he’s got one of those— those little, umm, mutant teeny tiny carrots and a couple of uh, pea pods, so that, the two pea pods and the two carrots will completely cancel out the six pounds of croutons that he ate.


Griffin: [laughs] Ok, good.


Travis: Excellent.


Clint: But diet Dr. Pepper!


Griffin: Hey, then that— that helps. We’ll check back with the judges on cookie point allocation after the recording of this episode of the podcast that we do.


Clint: [murmuring] Alright.


Griffin: Uhhm. But in— in the gameworld you’ve just enjoyed a delicious brunch that Jenkins reluctantly served you— uhh, and you’ve been on the train now for about an hour and a half. Umm… Jenkins checks back in on you, uh, and asks, uh:


Jenkins: Have you… given any more thought to—


Griffin: See I can’t do it this good this week, my throat’s not as… ragged.


Jenkins: Have you given any more thought to a pleasure chamber? You might want to, ah, visit? I can take you to one of my own personal favorites, I can take you to… a beautiful day spa where you will be covered in the richest yoghurt [British pronunciation] and… well you won’t be massaged cause nobody else will be there but it’s like a yoghurt… dip—


Magnus: Jenkins?


Jenkins: Yes?


Magnus: Could I visit your mom’s house?


[choked laughter]


Jenkins: I- if you… If— if— You could visit a room in— in— in my mother’s—


Merle: [interrupting him] Again.


Jenkins: You could visit- Oh, I see.


[Travis laughs]


Jenkins: Is this an actual request or just one of your patented burns?


Magnus: Nah, Jenkins, nah. We cool.


Taako: Jenkins, ah, I have a request. Send me to your most popular pleasure room.


Jenkins: Oh, I can do that for you.


Griffin: Uh, he removes from his, uh, pocket? I guess? From within his robe, we’ll say, he withdraws a small rod, um, a small cylindrical—


[Travis starts giggling with glee]


Griffin: God damn it!


[Clint laughs]


Travis: Tell me about this small rod he pulls out of his robes.


Griffin: It’s cylindrical and…


Justin: [laughs] I bet.


Griffin: Made of… it’s just—


[laughter in the background]


Travis: Is he— Does he seems proud of it? Or like is he embarrassed to pull it out?


Griffin: He— he whips it out and, umm [Clint laughs] it’s basically just like a, uh, a very plain looking silvery… umm… rod. I don’t know— I don’t know what to— to call it.


Justin: When he turns—


Griffin: Listen—


Justin: When he turns back to me I will drop my robes.


Griffin: Okay.


[Travis laughs]


Justin: I’m wearing— I’m wearing underwear.


Griffin: Okay.


Taako: I wanna be ready for anything.


Jenkins: Well, that will— that will not be necessary.


Travis: Spell me like one of your French girls.


Justin: I put my robes back on, getting a little bit sheepish about the whole thing.


Griffin: Yeah, like you’re on a train. There’s other people around. Umm, he- he takes this rod and—


Taako: [loudly] You’re welcome!


Griffin: —he points it at the door frame and sort of, ah, traces the outline of— of the door frame of this very, very shallow closet that’s like built into the wall of dining car, uh, and then he… opens up the door and it opens up to a greenhouse full of lush plants and rich clusters of berries, and just sort of these explosions of— of beautiful flora that— that is—is the most gorgeous collection of plants that any of you have ever- have ever seen. I don’t know if this is any of your jams, maybe Merle with your proclivity towards, uh, the natural world…


Clint: Yeah!


Griffin: Are— are you particularly moved by… I don’t wanna put— put, uh, feelings in your heart or words in your mouth, uh, but a—


Travis: Mmm, Magnus yawns demurely behind his hand.


Griffin: Okay.


Jenkins: Is this not— I thought that it might be good—


Magnus: No, no, sorry, it’s just it’s been a long day, it’s not your— this is a great pleasure room.


Jenkins: Are you ask me for my—


Taako: Are they— are they going too or is this a solo mish?


Jenkins: Anybody can go in if you want.


Taako: I’m going.


Jenkins: I’m going to stay out here and continue channeling because it’s important that I do that or the three of you will die.


Griffin: Umm, so the three of you wander into this beautiful botanical garden. It’s very relaxing. There’s, uh— It’s a little disorienting at first, being on a like a high speed train and then being in a stationary sort of room. Um, but uh, yeah, you aren’t too bothered by that because it’s— it smells great in here. Uh, the—


Justin: Uh, Griff, can you clarify something for me? Not to interrupt your—


Griffin: [crosstalk] No, please, go ahead.


Justin: Is the door to the pleasure room just sort of like an ephemeral, like, floating portal or is there like a little room—


Griffin: [crosstalk] No, it’s a door— it’s a door frame, and it’s- it’s not so much the room that’s transforming; it’s- it’s more that the door is, has opened up a gateway to this world. It’s not like the, don’t— It’s not like the Holodeck, it’s like a portal.


Travis: [crosstalk] Oh. This is like a Stargate situation.


Griffin: Yeah, kind of. Uh—


Clint: Or Narnia.


Griffin: Yeah. There’s— there’s a clearly defined, uh— On- on your side of the door in the, um, botanical garden, you see the same door frame from the train, uh, that is now behind you, and- and through it you can see the dining car, you can see Jenkins holding his rod and p— don’t—


Clint: Yep. [Travis sighs disappointedly]


Griffin: —pointing it at the door and saying, uh,


Jenkins: Enjoy yourselves. Please don’t take too long. Uh, and remember, don’t leave anything behind, and you cannot take anything with you.


Magnus: Except memories.


Jenkins: Well, the memories, yes, will be obliterated. No, I’m kidding.


Magnus: [laughs] Oh, Jenkins. You are a cad.


Jenkins: [crosstalk] Nothing- nothing- nothing could destroy memories.


Merle: And let’s leave the door open, shall we?


Jenkins: Well, yes, it would have to be.


Justin: Can I make an arcana check to see what I can tell about the magic of this portal?


Griffin: Yeah, sure.


Justin: …Do I need dice for that, or?


Travis: [laughs] Or just ask.


Justin: Sorry.


Griffin: [crosstalk] Historically, yeah.


Justin: [crosstalk] It was 21.


Griffin: Twenty-one. Uh, this, uh, magic that he is using is— Let me check. I don’t know what it would actually be.


Travis: It says here, “super cool.” It’s super cool, according to the manual.


Griffin: This is not illusion magic. It’s not— he has not created a fake version of this botanical garden. This is conjuration magic, uh, which is the school of magic that teleportation magic belongs to. So this is, this is honest-to-god teleportation but a very limited form of it.


Justin: Okay.


Griffin: Um, it’s, it’s, it’s incredibly, incredibly difficult for, uh, wizards to teleport proper, right? To actually go from one place to the other and just be there. This is a sort of limited, easier-to-use version of teleportation where, uh, you cannot sort of permanently displace yourself from point to the other, and that’s- that is why there are those limitations.


Taako: And if, if teleportation magic is hard for wizards to use, it must be impossible for Jenkinses.


Magnus: Bing!


Jenkins: Bing, you got me. [groans]


[Justin laughs]


Travis: Okay.


Justin: I just said that apropos of nothing. [laughter] Jenkins must think I’m insane.



Griffin: Uh, and very, very rude. Uh—


Travis: I walk around. I check it out. I see what there is to see.


Magnus: Nice. It’s very nice, very pleasant.


Jenkins: Thank you. I tend to it myself. This is a real garden in Rockport I tend to myself to help me exorcise my demons.


Travis: Is there anywhere in particular Jenkins would like me to use the bathroom? [Justin bursts out laughing] Is there a bathroom corner? Or is it just ladies’ choice?


Jenkins: Come back through and there’s a bathroom on the train with a—


Travis: I pee in the corner.


[Justin laughs]


Jenkins: Great, great, great, great.


[Justin laughs and claps]


Clint: Sort of marking your territory.


Travis: Yeah, but not— This isn’t in a weird way! This is just like, I’m- I’m communing with nature, and I feel very present, in the moment—


Jenkins: Joke’s on— joke’s on you, though. When you step back through the portal, your piss will disappear.


[Justin and Clint laugh]


Magnus: It always does, Jenkins! I’ve been cursed.


Jenkins: You- did a witch kiss you?


Magnus: It did.


Jenkins: Give you evaporating… piss?


Magnus: It was actually— It’s, it’s not a bad curse as it goes.


Jenkins: No, I would say it’s actually very good!


Magnus: It’s very pleasant.


Justin: [crosstalk] I follow through if—


Magnus: [crosstalk] But the fear is that one day, all the piss will return at once.


Justin: [crosstalk] Right. Okay, I follow through to the room— Oh my god.


Jenkins: [crosstalk] Oh no, like that scene in The Shining with the elevator. What?


Justin: How’s this still happening? [someone snorts] I just wanna come into the room and continue the adventure please, we’ve —


Griffin: Okay.


Justin: —got work to do.


Griffin: Uh, you enjoy the floral pleasure chamber for a little while, and then return back to the, uh, dining car. Um, Jenkins retreats towards the front of the car to continue his, his stewardly business. Uh, and the only people in the car now are the three of you, and Angus McDonald, the fancy lad from before, who closes his book, sets it down on the table, and says, uh:


Angus: Hello, sirs! How was your trip?


Magnus: [whispering] Don’t trust him.


Angus: Mmkay.


Taako: Pretty good, Angus. We had a good time. Uh, we sure missed you, though.


Angus: I missed you too. Hey, I forgot to ask! What’re y’all going to Neverwinter for?


Magnus: …Business.


Merle: [in a Scottish accent] Uh… visit our relatives.


Angus: Oh, you, you also have rela— I wonder if my grandpa knows your relatives. What relatives live there?


Merle: Uh, the distant ones!


Angus: Well, in terms of, [Justin laughs] like, your familial relationship, or are we talking about geographical?


Magnus: Emotional.


[Justin laughs]


Angus: I know how that go—


Merle: [crosstalk] Here’s the thing. Here’s the thing. We call ‘em our uncle, but it’s really just a good friend of our- our— of my dad’s. So, you know, it’s not really, not really that kind of connection.


Angus: What’s his name?


Merle: His, uh, his name is, uh, Willard.


Angus: And what are your guys’ names?


Merle: [confused] I’m Leeman.


Magnus: Still Diddley.


Angus: No, I’m sorry, I’m sorry. What are your guys’s real names?


Magnus: Huh?


Merle: Uh?


Magnus: ‘Scuse?


Taako: What do you mean, pumpkin?


Magnus: Pardonnez-moi?


Angus: What is— What are the names that aren’t fake that you guys actually have?


Magnus: [whispering] I don’t trust him!


Merle: [whispering] Hm, I really don’t trust him now.


Travis: I- I lean over to Taako.


Magnus: [whispering] Should I kill him?


Justin: I cast Detect Magic.


Griffin: Uh, okay. You, uh, you cast Detect Magic. What does that do again?


[Justin makes a vibratey sound, like a lightsaber]


Travis: [laughs] It sounds like a lightsaber.


[Clint whistles a pretty tune]


Justin: It sounds like a lightsaber. … It makes my book levitate out of the closet and open to the proper page to tell me what detect magic does.


Griffin: Okay.


Justin: You know.


Travis: We’re really good at D&D.


Griffin: “Detect Magic. For the duration, you sense the presence of magic within 30 feet of you. If you sense magic in this way, you can use your action to see a faint aura around any visible creature or object in the area that bears magic, and you learn its school of magic if any.”


Clint: Nice!


Justin: [crosstalk] Cool.


Clint: So has he got a aura?


{13:07}


Griffin: Uh, so you’re casting this—I guess, in the 30 feet around you that would uh, pick up uh, uh, basically everything in this dining car.



Justin: [crosstalk] Yeah.



Griffin: Uh… uh, his book, which is a uh, a sort of a plain blue book, without any sort of cover art, it’s not— it’s not The Secret, and if it were— I mean, it is secretive, you cannot tell what the book is, but you do detect uh, traces of magic on it, for divination. Uh, divination is the school of magic about learning secrets long forgotten, predicting the future, finding hidden things, and foiling deceptive spells. Uh, so you can pick that up—



Travis: Griffin, can I roll to see if I can snatch the book out of his hands, and hold it above his head, tauntingly?



Griffin: [Amused] Absolutely, you can.



Travis: Ok. [crosstalk] What would I roll?



Griffin: This is uh, dungeons and—[crosstalk] a bullying check, or cyber-bullying. ‘Cause we’re doing this on the internet.



Clint: [crosstalk] So you’re casting na-na na-na boo boo, right?



Travis: Yeah, I roll… Yeah, I rolled a 14, and I have a plus 18 to bullying. So that’s 32.


 [laughter]


Griffin: Uh, no, it would be, uh— probably a sleight of hand check, if you’re just gonna very quickly try and grab this out of his hands, and he—



Travis: I rolled a 16.



Griffin: Ok, and he will contest that with… gosh, I don’t know.



Justin: Dex- dexterity, probably?



Griffin: Yeah, probably dexterity, uh… [dice rolling] he’s got a plus four to dexterity… I rolled a 16. That’s a 20!



Travis: [indrawn breath] Damn it.



Griffin: You uh, you try to snatch it out of his hands, and he quickly rips it back and he says,



Angus: Don’t do— Don’t try that again! Just— I need to know what your guys’s names are, right now!



Travis: [laughing] I try it again.



Griffin: Ok.



[Laughter]



Travis: [dice rolling] that time it was an… 18.



Griffin: Ok, that time I rolled a six, which is a 10. Okay, you snatch it out of his hands and hold it above his head. Uh… he says, uh:



Angus: Okay, that’s not cool, man. I get it, I’m not as tall as you are—



Clint: Laugh condescendingly, Trav.



Travis: Okay, I uh, I roll to laugh condescendingly.



Griffin: Oh, you can just do that. It’s a free—



Travis: [crosstalk] Success! [condescending laughter]



Merle: [scottish] We’re just teasing ya, little fella. Just having some good— good sporting with ya.



Griffin: Uh,


Angus: It’s a great prank, and a really good goof. I need to know what your rea—



Travis: I toss the book to Taako.



        Angus: Okay, so we’re doing this now, huh?



               Merle: [scottish] It’s called monkey in the middle.



               Angus: I know what it’s called.


Magnus: No, I- I can’t read magic.



Justin: Ok, I look at it and I do an arcana check on the book.



Clint: You already did.



Justin: Uh, no, I did an arcana check on the room, I did an arcana check on the—



Clint: Well, he threw it in, where he said the book is from, uh, it’s used to detect truth and—



Justin: Arcana though is like what- what is it? I had my headphones off, ironically, looking for the book to tell me what detect magic—



Griffin: That is- that is fucking delicious.



[Laughter]



Griffin: Uh, arcana, uh, measures your ability to recall lore about spells, magic items, eldritch symbols, magical traditions, the planes of existence and the inhabitants of those planes. Uh, you uh, using your- your arcana, which you’re going to roll now before I actually tell you what happens—



Justin: That’s uh, 22.



Griffin: Twenty-two! Okay, uh, so yeah this is a— this book has some divination magic built into it, and you actually recognize it as a interceptor book, and what it can do is uh, intercept messages that are transmitted through magical means, and then display them in a plain text version, uh, of any language of the reader’s choosing on the page. Uh, on- on a page of the book. Um.



Justin: And does it like, stick around, like—?



Griffin: And, actually, funny you ask, as you pick it up, the book, and open it up to figure it out, the book sort of magically responds, and you can read the last message that was deciphe—that was uh, intercepted by the book, and it reads, um:



Book: Leeman Kessler and Co. not who they say they are. STOP Charm magic spell performed at the station. STOP Hand over to authorities immediately upon arrival in Neverwinter. STOP



Justin: Does the interceptor, as its name would imply, keep the message from getting where it’s going, or is it just sort of like—



Griffin: Yes.



Justin: Oh, okay, interesting.



Magnus: Angus, where did you get this book?



Angus: That’s not important, what is important is that the three of you tell me exactly what you’re doing on this train and what your real names are.



Taako: How about we have the book, so why don’t you tell us some stuff and then we’ll give you your book back.



Angus: How about— how about—



Magnus: Quid pro quo, Mister Angus, quid—pro—quo!



Taako: What he said!



Angus: How about I’m a little boy who knows that you’re lying, and I can yell and yell and yell, and get you in lots of trouble.



Merle: [Scottish] How about except for me, we’re much bigger than you and we can thump your gourd.



Magnus: [crosstalk] Okay, wait, wait, hold on—



Taako: [unintelligible, crosstalk] The only good thing about him knowing you’re lying is that you don’t have to do the voice in front of Angus. Um, you know what? Here.



Justin: I toss him the book.



Travis: Yeah, I’m on board with that.


Angus: Thanks.



Taako: You seem okay, so what’s- so what’s the skinny, kid? My name’s Taako. You probably recognize me from TV!



               Angus: [laughing] TV hasn’t been invented yet, sir!



Taako: It’s a— This is a place out of time. TV might have been invented.



Angus: I can explain everything if you come with me in my sleeper car. There might be prying eyes. And listening ears.



Magnus: Yeah, nothing weird about three grown men accompanying Angus to his sleeper car. Let’s go!



Taako: Make sure we pass all the paparazzo on the way.



Griffin: Uh, the three of you retreat with Angus to his sleeper car. It actually, uh, is a lot nicer than yours, which seems weird.



Travis: Cool.



Griffin: Uh, but he sits down on the bed and opens up his book and uh, he says, uh:



Clint: God, he’s not a brony, is he?


Griffin [in Angus voice] I’m a mad brony, yo.



[laughter]


Justin: We love bronies.


Griffin: Uh, he says uh,



Angus: My name is Angus McDonald. That part you already know. Uh, I am, and I’m not being braggy, because I— my grandpa says not to do that, but I am the world’s greatest detective.


Travis: I roll my eyes.


[Justin cracks up in the background]


Angus: Okay. I mean I- I did detective good enough to see through your horseshit, so I can’t be too bad.


Merle: [scottish] Are you saying you’re a boy detective?


Angus: I— If you want to be— reductive. [Travis laughs] I have a motto and that’s “Age ain’t no thing.” Anyway, I’m the world’s greatest detective and I’m on the trail of a serial killer named the Rockport Slayer. I was hired on by the Rockport City Council and they—


Griffin: I didn’t think those words through, I just sort of said them.


Angus: I was hired by the Rockport City Council to track down the Rockport Slayer. He’s a serial killer who has been giving them no shortage o’ trouble.



Magnus: Mhm, mhm.



Angus: He’s—he’s been in business in Rockport for a few months now. What he does is he targets wealthy individuals and he murders ‘em and he takes their riches. And- but he never leaves a trace behind him. And, and, so I’m trying to—trying to track him down. I explained that, right?


Magnus: Listen, Angus—


Merle: [crosstalk] That makes perfect sense.



Magnus: I think we are, we are working towards a similar goal. The three of us, we work for an org- organization… let’s leave it at that—



Angus: What’s it called?



Magnus: I can’t… tell you. I literally-



Angus: Good detective work requires that you obtain as much information about the case as you possibly can.



Taako: I’ll- I’ll- I’ll tell him what it’s called. It’s called the [gargling noise] of [gargling noise].



Magnus: You got something in your throat?



Merle: Did you get that okay?



Angus: Is there some sort of magical charm preventing you from telling me what it actually is?



Merle: Well, the thing- the thing that’s preventing it is the [static noise] of [static] that we wear on our [static].



Angus: Okay?


Griffin: He looks over your bracers.


Angus: Oh, I see, those are some sort of communication-impeding bracers, right?


Magnus: Dang, Angus!



Taako: You are good. Whoo!



Magnus: You are, you’re real good!



Taako: That was, uh, right between the eyes. Got ‘em.



Griffin: Uh, he says, uh:



Angus: I have reason to believe that the serial killer, the Rockport Slayer is somewhere aboard this train. Because last night he murdered the real Leeman Kessler.



Taako: Um, can I ask you a question, Angus?



Angus: Yeah, please.



Taako: So in the book, there was a message. Do you, does your book tell you who a message is sent from, or do you just sort of snatch it out of thin air?



Angus: Uh, according to this it was sent through a magical line down the rails by a Tom Bodett.



Merle: I knew killing him— I told you-


Magnus: Aw, we should’ve killed Tom Bodett!



Merle: I knew it!



Griffin: Uh, to explain, when the Charm Person spell wears off, the person who was charmed knows that you cast a Charm Person spell on them.



Clint: Aw, well.



Taako: If memory serves me, we didn’t even need to cast it, we just did it for shits and giggles.



Magnus: So good job, us.



Angus: Tell me this, [he says] I know that you all are restricted in what you can and can’t tell me through magical means but can you tell me this— was Leeman Kessler carrying something very valuable?



Magnus: He was.



Angus: Can you tell me anything about it?



Magnus: No.


Taako: Let me try. It, um, it was one of the [static noise]


Angus: Nope. That’s not doing it.


Merle: [crosstalk] Not gonna work.


Taako: Not working?


Merle: Look, kid, we’re taking a lot of things on faith here. You’re gonna have to take some things on faith, too.


Magnus: Angus, here’s what we can tell you.


Angus: Okay.


Magnus: This— this item, if it falls into the wrong hands, is remarkably dangerous, is incredibly bad.


Angus: And this item, if my suspicions are to be believed, is locked up in the safe in the— in the cargo car. Is that correct?


Magnus: Well, that’s not really that impressive. That’s where we lock stuff up, Angus. You didn’t really, like, deduce the shit out of that one.


Taako: He wasn’t, he wasn’t showboating.


Magnus: [crosstalk] Oh, okay.


Angus: [crosstalk] Yeah, I’m just sort of working with you now.


[Travis laughs]


Magnus: Oh yes, then yes, you’re correct. Uh, that is correct, Angus. Um, it’s stored back there—


Angus: [crosstalk] [shakily] Oh no, it’s too late for that conversation, but let’s move on.


[Clint laughs]


Magnus: Okay. So the issue that we’re dealing with, Angus, is it’s back there. We… don’t know very much about the item except that it’s very dangerous. We have no—


Angus: [crosstalk] Have you talk— Have you tried— Have you tried explaining to the engineer so he can open it up so you guys can secure it—?


Taako: [crosstalk] Here’s the problem: What we’re talking about is so, like, big deal, we, we— this is- this is gonna sound phony, but we don’t know who we can trust. Listen. Look at us. We’re three grown men trusting a baby [Clint laughs] with the secrets. We’re not professionals—


Angus: [crosstalk] I’m not a baby! I’m f— I’m a— I’m a— a— eight- What— How old—? I’m 10— Did I say how old I was last time?


Merle: Ten.



Angus: Ten it is!


Taako: A master of observation indeed.


[snickering]


Merle: It’s this attention to detail that convinced us.


[Justin laughs]


Angus: If the object of value that the three of you are trying to claim is somewhere on this train, then I have reason to believe that the Rockport Slayer is somewhere on the train too. So we need to—


Griffin: Uh, as he’s talking and explaining this to you, uh, you see a shadow through the frosted glass of the, uh, of the- the sleeper car, uh, breeze past the windows, and Angus gets very quiet. Uh, and he says,


Angus: [whispering] I have reason to believe the Rockport Slayer is—


Taako: I can’t hear you!


Angus: [whispering] Well there—


Magnus: What was that?


Angus: [whispering] I don’t— P- prying eyes!


Merle: [loudly] What?


Angus: Prying eyes—


Magnus: Huh?


Angus: [loudly] The prying eyes! There’s prying eyes and prying ears!


Magnus: [whispering] Hey, shh! There’s prying ears everywhere, Angus!


Merle: [whispering] What’re you yelling about, kid, are you crazy?


Angus: I am a hundred percent sure that the three of you don’t possess the competency required—


[Justin giggles]


Magnus: Solid.


Angus: —to perform multiple murders without getting caught by me already.


Taako: [amused] He is a good detective.


Magnus: That’s pretty good.


Merle: Is that your way of saying we’re off the suspect list for being serial killers?


Angus: For now.


Merle: Okay.


Angus: But I will need you to help me catch and apprehend, which also means catch, [Justin laughs] the real Rockport Slayer who I know is somewhere aboard this—


Griffin: Uh, from outside, down towards—


Clint: Dun dun dunnn!


Griffin: —towards the front of the train, you hear a high-pitched shriek. “Aieeeeee!” [chuckling] …How was that?


[overlapping agreement that it was good]


Justin: It was like West Side Story in here.


[Clint laughs]


Griffin: Uh, and Angus goes, uh:


Angus: Oh no, we need to go check that out right now!


Magnus: [crosstalk] Wait, “aboard this” what? “Aboard this” what?


Angus: Train.


Magnus: Okay, let’s go!


Merle: Oh, whew, okay.


Griffin: Uh, the three of you move from the sleeper car towards the front of the train, towards the passenger car. Before you even reach the door to the chamber, uh, between cars you see a large pool of blood on the outside of the closed door. Uh, and there is actually a little bit of blood, uh, on- on the door itself also. Uh, but the door is closed.


Clint: Ooh, that sounds ookie.


Angus: I don’t like the look of this one bit.


Magnus: Alright. Well, you go first.


[laughter]


Angus: Okay. Sounds fair!


Merle: That is not like you at all, Magnus.


{26:10}


Griffin: Uh, and opens up the door to the space between the sleeper and passenger cars and walks inside. And from where you’re standing, you can see a- a scene of pretty tremendous gore. Are you walking into the space between the cars or are you—?


[overlapping agreement]



Griffin: I was gonna say, that’s not very “Magnus rushes in” of you.


Clint: Yeah.


Travis: Oh yeah, Magnus rushes in!


Clint: It’s not very “us” of us.


Travis: [crosstalk] It’s been awhile since I’ve gotten to rush anywhere.


Merle: Look, kid, you did the detective work, we’ll do the heavy lifting, alright?


Griffin: Uh, you are now in the space between the cars, which is a uh, a pretty tight fit. Imagine about the size of, like, an elevator car, with entrances on both sides, one leading towards the front of the train, towards the passenger one, uh, the one you just stepped through, uh—


Clint: So it’s enclosed, correct?


 Griffin: It, it is enclosed. Um, there are no windows. It’s- it’s just sort of a, you know, like a space between trains. I don’t know how familiar with trains the three of you are. Lying on the floor, uh, you see a body. Uh, this body is wearing robes. [Travis gasps] It has been beheaded completely.


Justin: [gasps] No!


Travis: Oh no.


Griffin: Uh, it’s— Both of its hands—


Clint: Reach inside its robe and see if you can find its rod.


Griffin: Both of its hands are missing, and—


Justin: [crosstalk] Does it— Does it have a tie? Does it have a bowtie? Tell me it doesn’t have a bowtie!


Travis: Griffin!


Griffin: It has a shimmering, rainbow bowtie.


Clint, Justin, & Travis: Nooo!


Clint: Jenkins!


Travis: We should have appreciated him while he was alive!


Justin: [sobbing] Jenkins!


Griffin: Uh, Jenkins has been beheaded, behanded—


Taako: [sobbing] If only you used one of your spell slots to defend yourself.


[laughter of crying]


Griffin: Ang- Ang- uh, in the corner you see Angus leaning over the, uh uh, body of Graham, the hedge wizard.


Clint: [crosstalk] Graham too??


Justin: And he’s just jerking it.


[laughter]


Griffin: He is- he is not beheaded and behanded. He’s not— he doesn’t seem to have any wounds. He’s just lying on the floor, and uh, Angus says, uh—


Travis: Who is Graham?


Griffin: Graham is the Juicy Wizard.


Travis: Ah. Thank you.


Griffin: Uh, Graham is the Juicy Wizard, of course, that you all remember and love. Uh, uh, and—


Justin: [laughing] The great adventures of the character the Juicy Wizard Graham.


Griffin: Yeah.


[Clint laughs]


Griffin: Angus is leaning over his body, and says, uh,


Angus: He’s just fainted.


Griffin: Uh, also in the car, you see the drink cart that, uh — what was it — Jenkins, the dearly departed, was uh—


Travis: You forgot his name already, Griffin?


Griffin: Well, he’s dead, we don’t need to worry about him anymore.


Clint: [crosstalk] You bastard.


Travis: He’s been dead for seconds!


Griffin: Uh, and there is a considerable amount of blood on the floor here too. Uh, and, uh — god, got a lot of names going— Angus says, uh:


Angus: Look over the body as quick as you can before anybody else gets here.


Merle: That’s my job. Let me look at the body.


Magnus: Wait— okay.


Clint: Hmm.


Griffin: You can all— You can all make investigation checks if you like.


Clint: Well, I am the medical expert.


Travis: Yes—


Griffin: Okay.


Justin: [crosstalk] That’s true.


Travis: I wanna— I wanna see if- if the rod is missing.


Justin: That’s a fair question.


Griffin: Uh, okay, you’re gonna do that?


Travis: I rolled a 19.


Clint: [crosstalk] What’re we rolling?


Justin: And also look for — investigation checks — and also look to see what, uh, if his wand’s there too.


Travis: Nice.


Griffin: Uh, hi— you- you rolled a what now?


Travis: Nineteen.


Griffin: Mmkay. Uh, uh, Magnus you very quickly investigate his belongings. There’s no rod in his possession. There’s no uh, wand, no magical instrument. Really, nothing- nothing on this guy.


Justin: A six for Taako. Did I find anything, Griffin?


Griffin: You’re just sort of investigating.


Justin: Investigating. You know, I’m lookin- I’m lookin— I’m investigating the scene with my six.


Griffin: Okay. With a six investigation, uhhh, you don’t see a lot. The only sort of peculiar thing you notice is that the cut through the, uh, neck, the- the sort of carving job that happened there, is very clean. There’s a very, very clean cut through, uh, through the neck.


Clint: Let me investigate the body a little more. I rolled a 20.


Justin: [Crosstalk] Wasn’t—?


Griffin: A 20! Okay, with a 20, uh, you notice two things. First of all is that the cut through the hands, the cuts through the wrists I should say, to remove the hands is not clean. It is not nearly as smooth, uh, as professionally executed, I guess you could say, as the neck itself. Uh, and the other thing that you notice is that Jenkins’ clothes are r- other than the blood that has gotten on them, they are relatively unscathed, untorn, uh, there doesn’t appear to be any sign of a struggle, just based on what he’s wearing. Um, uh, so the- the three of you have investigated the corpse, and—


Clint: Is he bleeding from the neck and the- and the wrist?


Griffin: Oh, yeah yeah yeah. He’s a- he’s a sprinkler right now.


Clint: Okay.


Griffin: He’s one of those wacky sprinklers.


Magnus: [crosstalk] Angus.


Griffin: Angus looks at you, and he goes,


Angus: We need to get Graham to a uh, a bed or something as quick as—


Griffin: And he stops and, uh, looks up, and he says:


Angus: Nobody move.


Travis: I turn around.


Magnus: What?


[laughter]


Griffin: He, uh, uh, with a flick of his wrist, uh, Angus produces a hand crossbow from his sleeve and shoots it at the ceiling, and as he does, you hear, uh, a growling sound, like “Rrrahhh!” like that.


Travis: Cool.


Griffin: Uh, and suddenly a figure starts to take shape on the ceiling. Uhh, first you see four very, very sharp, straight claws, almost like crab claws, attached to a large, round torso that, on the bottom of it, has a circular mouth with three rows of glowing, orange teeth inside of it. And Angus points at the door behind you and says:


Angus: I’m gonna get this guy out of here, you three run!


Magnus: No, wait, hold on. We got this! It’s cool!


Griffin: Uh, and, uh, with that, Angus grabs Graham and, with a surprising amount of strength for a little boy, uh, pulls him out of the chamber. Uh, and just as he does, this crab-like creature above you—his mouth, the teeth on his mouth begin to spin. Uh, his mouth begins to glow.


Taako: I’m following Angus. I’ll see you all in hell.


[laughter]


Griffin: Okay.


Taako: C’mon, stupids!


Magnus: Alright, go! I’ll- I’ll get the rear. Go. We don’t have any weapons.


Merle: We have magic.


Magnus: Well, some of us do.


[Clint laughs]


Griffin: Uh, which direction— Are- are you staying in the car, are you running towards Angus, or are you running away towards the back of the car?


Travis: Is the thing still on the ceiling?


Griffin: Yeah.


Travis: I gave up my weapons. Did I give up my shield as well?


Griffin: Yeah.


Travis: Aww.


Merle: You guys really want to run away. You don’t want to fight.


Taako: I have no— We have no— [stammering]


Merle: You have magic! You have offensive magic!


Taako: Yeah—


Merle: I have offensive magic!


Taako: I wanna tell you a story about the time that there were three ogres, right? And then one of them hit me so hard I almost died. [Travis and Clint laugh] You were sitting up in some sort of weird laser, just shooting flasks willy-nilly, and Travis was ripping the arms off of robots, and I got punched so hard I almost died! I’m not gonna go toe-to-toe with a crab while you’re armed with a terrible Scottish accent, and Travis doesn’t even have his shield! I’m out! I mean— Did I say Travis? I mean Leeman Kessler.


Magnus: Nope!


[laughter]


Merle: No!


Magnus: Wrong all the way around!


Taako: Good enough.


[{34:13-38:59} Ad break]


Griffin: Okay, so what have the three of you decided to do?


Travis: Lay out- Lay out for me again: We’re in a train car, right?


Griffin: You are in the space between the passenger and sleeper cars.


Travis: We’re looking into the passenger car.


Griffin: You’re— th— Angus has just pulled Graham into the passenger car, and he told you to run the other way.


Justin: The weird crab is in front of the—


Griffin: Is on the ceiling, with its uh, glowing mouth pointed downward.


Travis: And— He’s on the ceiling, in the space between.


Griffin: Yeah. Uh—


Travis: Oh okay.


Griffin: I have stopped time here, uh, for- for all of you, with my- my immeasurable, DM god magic, so the three of you can make a decision.


Justin: I’m, uh, I mean, I already made mine, I like pushed Angus outta the way, like, gimme, I’m gone.


Travis: I’m going- I’m going toward the passenger car I guess.


Griffin: Okay, uh, you are in—


Travis: ‘Cause it’s better to stick together I guess.


Griffin: Sure.


Justin: Whatever, whatever helps you sleep at night.


Clint: Alright, I'll go along.


Griffin: Uh, the three of you follow Angus into the passenger car, uh, and he yells:


Angus: Shut the door!


Travis: [Imitating Angus] Were you born in a barn?!



[laughter]


Justin: I shut the door.


Griffin: Okay. Uh, you slam the door behind you, and as you do, you hear a deafening roar come from that room, and the- the door seems to buckle and rattle. Uh, you feel a burst of—


Justin: Can I try to do the foley?


Griffin: Yeah, yeah, sure.


[Justin makes a soft “Arr” sound]


[Clint imitates door with his mouth and stomping his feet]


Travis: I brace against it.


[Sound effects continue]


Griffin: That’s g—


Justin: Da- Dad did it.


[Sound effects stop]


Justin: I wanted to do it, but Dad did it.


Clint: I’m sorry, I’m so— I’m helping.


Travis: Dad’s the worst!


Justin: You weren’t helping, I was gonna do a hilarious joke.


Griffin: Okay, we’ll take it from the top.


Clint: [crosstalk] Oh man.


Justin: Ok, Griffin can I do the foley on the roar, the deafening roar?


Griffin: Yeah.


Justin: [softly] Raar.


Griffin: That’s a pretty good joke, that was worth do— that was worth two- two takes.


Justin: [laughing] That was worth- that was worth going back, don’t you think Dad?


Clint: [laughing] It was good, yeah. That was good!


Justin: Let’s take one more pass at that, that one felt a little limp to me.


Griffin: Uh, a—


[Soft roar/”raar” noise repeated, stomping feet to imitate clattering door. Justin giggles.]


Clint: That was the door.


Griffin: Angus yells—


Justin: That felt good, that felt good to me.


Griffin: Ang- Angus yells—


Travis: Can we do a silly one, with maybe some like, we crunch up some cellophane to make it sound like he’s walking through the leaves?


Angus: Wow, that door sounded so realistic!


[Travis laughs]


[Background imitation horse trotting sound]


Taako: Oh, he found a horse!


[Laughter]


Travis: Oh no!


[More laughter]


Griffin: Uh—


Clint: Now he’s underwater! [Goofy bubbling sound, as if blowing bubbles into a cup]


[Justin laughs]


Travis: Oh, he’s throwing punches!


Clint: And now [tapping sound] —I don’t know what that was.


[Justin’s giggling trails off]


Justin: That was—


Griffin: The train de-rails, and everyone on board dies.


Justin: Leave that in the podcast.


Griffin: Do some fucking foley on that!


[Strong laughter from Clint]


Griffin: I wanna hear the foley of all of your death rattles.


[Continued laughter from players]


Griffin: Three ghosts appear and strangle all three of you to death. What’s that sound like?


[More laughter. A shaking sound, like a dice bag being shaken next to the mic]


Travis: That’s my death rattle.


Griffin: Yeah, that’s a pretty good goof.


Griffin: Th- the, you feel a sort of burst of hot air come from behind this incredibly lifelike rattling fantasy door. Angus yells, uh:


Angus: What’re you doing, I told you to run towards the back of the train! Sirs!


Magnus: Well we wanted to, like, protect you.


Angus: I don’t need protecting! I need, uh, you know what a great thing to do to protect me would be—


Griffin: He says, uh, and the door behind you in the space where you found the corpse, just blasts open and that crab, uh, that fiery crab monster lurches through and Angus yells:


Angus: It would’ve been great if you had brought it in any other room, except for the room that we’re in now!


Taako: [crosstalk] Well, how were we—


Angus: If you had maybe t—


Magnus: [crosstalk] You know what, listen…


Angus: If you could’ve aggro’ed him, and trained him toward the back of the train— Oh I get why they call it that now, um—


[Clint laughs]


Angus: Anyway, we better roll initiative.


[Travis laughs, Justin groans]


Justin: Ugh, Okay.


Travis: I rolled a… 10.


Clint: I rolled a 19.


Griffin: Damn, dawg!


Justin: Uhhh uhhh 11.


Justin: I wish I learned this one… Chill Touch. That sounds nice.


Travis: That’s- it’s chill.


Clint: Heeey!


Travis: Heeey!


Justin: Chill, chill.


Justin: Hey, how ‘bout a chill touch!


Travis: Chill touch!


[Clint laughs]


Justin: Chill touch, just relax. Chill…


Travis: I think chill touch is what they do in Earth Girls Are Easy.


Griffin: Uh-


Justin: [In Taako’s voice] Be cooool, take a seat on my Adirondack chair.


Griffin: Okay. Uh,


[Justin laughs]


Griffin: First in the ord- order is Merle. Uh, first off let me explain the situation: The three of you are in the passenger car. Which, is, essentially just a row of, uh, two rows of benches, on the left and right sides of the train with some windows, uh, next to each bench— imagine just sort of the layout of a… well, a train. And in the front row, uh, sitting, who’s just turned to, uh, survey the deafening noise and yelling, you see, Jess the Beheader. Uh, and just behind you is Angus who is still dragging Graham,  the fainted Juicy Wizard, aw- away from this crab, who is directly in front of you. And with that, uh, it is Merle’s turn.


Clint: So Angus is heading towards the front of the train…


Griffin: Angus is basically trying to get Graham away from… the monster.


Clint: …Right, but I’m trying to get the direction fixed in my head. Towards the front of the train… the crab is toward the back of the train.


Griffin: Right, exactly.


Clint: Ok I’m, I’ve decided—


Griffin: [crosstalk] And you— Okay.


Clint:—to no longer try to be… Wesley. I’m—


Travis: Hmm?


Clint: —From Princess Bride. I’m gonna fulfill my role as a cleric! I cast Shield of Faith.


Griffin: Okay.


Clint: A shimmering field that lasts for 10 minutes, and will give each one of the three of us plus two AC.


Griffin: Okay!


Clint: You’re wel-come!


Justin: Super cool.


Griffin: Ah, you gonna move, or do anything?


Clint: Nope! I'm just doing that. Casting Shield of- of Faith.


Griffin: Okay! Uh-


Clint: I hold up my book, my, my Extreme Teen Bible, a, a bright, clear, crystal blue sheen erupts from it—


Travis: Wait—is it clear, or is it crystal blue?


Clint: Yes.


Travis: [laughs] Okay.


Clint: It’s crystal clear, blue, bluish, with a slight bluish tint.


Travis: [crosstalk] Translucent.


Justin: Uh, Griff, are we able to tell like what it— does the crab seem organic, or robotic, or what is it?


Griffin: Oh, it’s organic. It’s, uh, it is, it’s not, uh, an automaton? Ah, it is… uh—


Justin: You know how Travis feels about those.


Travis: Yeah.


Griffin: Yeah. [chuckles]


Travis: How big is it? Like compare it to an animal?


Griffin: Uh, it is… the size of… a… hm… That’s a great question Travis. Sort of a Galapagos Turtle.


Travis: Okay.


Clint: Oh, that would hurt.


Griffin: What would?


Clint: If it— if it pinched us.



Griffin: Yeah. It was not, it doesn’t have pincers, as much as it has these long, razor sharp claws. And uh, a mouth that is very big, and has lots of teeth like a Sarlacc.


Travis: Oh-kay!


Clint: Yeah, but there’s still good meat in there, I’m tellin ya.


Griffin: Oh, for sure, for sure, for sure.


Clint: Ooh.


Griffin: Um, okay, Merle are you done? You’re not moving?


Clint: That’s it. I'm, I’m not moving.


Griffin: Okay! The three of you are just standing shoulder to shoulder then, I guess, uh, it is now the crab’s turn. Uh, he scuttles towards the three of you… uh, sort of rotates his body and rears back on one of his claws—


Travis: Mmhm.


Griffin: —and swings one claw each at all three of you.


[brief pause]


Justin: Sweet.


Travis: Oh, that’s a cool look.


Griffin: Just sort of just a, just sort of a raking attack. Uh, we’ll start with… uh, we’ll start with Merle.


Clint: Now which one do I roll?


Griffin: I’m rolling to attack your AC.


Clint: Alright.


Griffin: Uh, that is a 17.


Clint: Yeah, 18 is my armor class.


Justin: It actually is 20 right now, right?


Clint: Oh that’s right, yes.


{47:01}


Griffin: Uh, okay, so his uh, claw just sort of… uh, grazes you and just sort of glances off your pauldrons of your chainmail armor. Uh, the next claw comes down on Taako, and that is…ooh, goddamn, uh, 24?


Taako: Just barely.


[Travis laughs]


Griffin: Uh, and I’ll go ahead and roll the attack on Merle too to see if it hits. Uhh, that is a… 18.


Travis: Wait, on me you mean?


Griffin: Yeah, I’m sorry, Magnus.


Travis: My AC right now is 19, thank you Merle.


Griffin: Uh, ok. Uh, so Taako, you are the only one that got hit by that, and you take… Ooh, six… plus eight, 14 damage. As he rakes it across your chest.


Travis: Um, am I- am I correct in thinking that without my shield I can’t do…


Griffin: Yeah, you can’t — I think that’s true.


Travis: I think that’s true too.


Griffin: I’m gonna say it’s true cause how— what the fuck, what are you gonna do. Jump in front of it like, uh, in the line of fire?


Travis: I mean I will, I’ll take that damage.


Griffin: No. Uh, Taako took that damage — 14 damage — to the Taako.


Justin: Wait, how many?


Griffin: Yeah, 14. Listen, you guys are level- what, level 4 now? You can take a— you can take a beating. Fourteen’s nothing. [pause] I shit and take 14 damage.


[Laughter]


Travis: Really? You should see a doctor, Griffin.


Griffin: Next in the order is Taako.


Travis: No wait wait wait— it just says “protection, when a creature you see attacks a target other than you when it’s in five feet—” oh, nope, you must be wielding a shield. Okay, nevermind!


Griffin: I was about to say, what are you— “Hey you! Cut it out!”


Travis: “Get your damn hands off him!”


Griffin: “You get your damn… lobster claws off him!”


Travis: No Biff- okay.


Griffin: Uh, Taako, it is your turn.


Justin: Where is the- the thing has made its way into the train car, right?


Griffin: Uh, it’s ri- it’s right in front of you, yeah. Um, all of you are about, uh — you’re sort of clustered up together — about, uh, eight feet from the door that you came through?


Justin: Okay. Okay. I cast Levitate on the crab.


Travis: Nice.


Griffin: Uh, okay.


Justin: It has to pass a constitution saving throw.


Griffin: Constitution’s not this crab’s strong point, which I’m sure you’ll be happy to hear- glad to hear. Um, what is that— and then what. You just fuck— you levitate him?


Justin: Yeah, he floats for 10 minutes.


Griffin: [laughing] Okay, I didn’t know you can do that—


Justin: And he can— well, you have to have a, I mean, if it’s unwilling, you have to pass a constitution saving throw.


Griffin: Okay. Eleven? Yeah, it didn’t pass. Uh, ok, this crab is now levitating, how high and [laughing] what does that mean?


Justin: You- it would float up to 20 feet… Um, right, at this point it can only, uh, move, uh… let me just—


Griffin: If it uses another physical object to like, push itself?


Justin: Yeah, it can push off a surface within reach. Uh, I can change the altitude by up to 20 feet in either direction on my turn. Can I say something as a free action?


Griffin: Yeah.



Taako: Knock it out! Of the train!


Merle: Cool. You know basically, if you levitate it up to the roof you’ve got a crab on its back, not able to move.


Taako: Yeah, I wanna knock it out of the train!


Griffin: Magnus, uh, it is your turn.


Travis: Excellent, I’m gonna step up and Phantom Fist it out a window.


[Justin laughs]


Griffin: Ok —


Travis: That is a… 17.


Griffin: And you have to beat AC?


Travis: Yeah.


Griffin: Uh yeah, he has 16 AC, so—


Travis: Nice.


Griffin: —that connects.


Travis: Uhhm. So that hits 1d4…


Griffin: And don’t you get some sort of bonus, for your unarmed?


Travis: Oh, it does, it does. It’s um… 1d4, so I hit it for two, but I get to push it…


Griffin: Okay.


Travis: Um. And I’m gonna push it… through the window. So basically I’m punching it out a window.


Griffin: The window is about, uh… six feet? Uh, which— to the left or the right? You’re basically in the center of the train right now.


Travis: I mean, I’m punching it with my right fist, so—


Griffin: So it would be towards the left.


Travis: Yes.


Griffin: Uh okay, you punch— and how far can you punch him with the Phantom Fist?


Travis: I don’t know.


Griffin: This pushes the target back 2d4 feet.


Travis: Oh, okay. Great.


Griffin: Uhm. We will say because he’s experiencing some like, anti-gravity shit right now, we’ll bump that up to 3d4.


Travis: Okay.


Griffin: Uhm. So you need to get 6 if you wanna try and—


Travis: Four.


Griffin: —get him out of the train—


Travis: Six.


Griffin: Okay, yeah.


Travis: Uh, ten.


Griffin: Okay, you punch him, uh, towards the left side of the train, he hits the glass and it shatters but he gets a chance to, uh, try and grab onto the sides of the train to avoid getting knocked out. Let’s do a straight up and down check, if it beats 10, then he manages to hold himself. Uh, he got an 11. So you punch him, he uh, his- his basically mouth side goes flying into the glass and shatters it, but he manages to stab his claws into either side of the window, and hold himself there without going out. But you did do some damage to him.


Travis: I’m gonna action surge and punch him again.


[Justin laughs]


Griffin: Okay.


Travis: I’m dedicated to this, I want this to happen real bad.


Justin: This needs to happen.


Travis: Uh, that is a 19.


Griffin: Okay. Yeah, that does it. And you don— I guess you don’t need to roll for distance. You roll damage, so go ahead and hit him.


Travis: Okay, two… that’s another two… so all together I’ve hit him for eight damage.


Griffin: Okay.


Travis: And- and punched him out a window.


Griffin: Okay. Uhh. Same chance to resist —


Justin: Wait a minute, why does he get a chance to resist Phantom Fist?


Griffin: I- you- So if at any time you are being, uh, knocked off a ledge to your death, or being knocked into like a, hole or any situation where you are being killed with movement? Uh, you get a chance to— a- a reflex save to save yourself. Uh, the only other time you wouldn’t do that is if you’re like, asleep or unconscious or something. Uh, but that time he only rolled a seven. Uh, so you, uh— he is latched onto this window, you run out to him one more time and do like a jumping punch attack, uh, and his claws, his claw-knees buckle and, uh, he gets pushed out the window. You are on the inside of the tunnel, so he gets scraped up against the side of the tunnel and train, uh, and you- you see him move down the- the length of the train as it passes through this tunnel and he’s just sort of getting mashed up. Uh, he’s not outside of the car for very long when you see another burst of flame, and he sort of rocket propels himself, uh, back into the train about two cars down.


Travis: Now hold on! Now…


[laughter]


Griffin: Uh, but! Because he just got straight up grinded, uh, down the length of the train, we’ll say he took, uh, 2d12 damage from that. That’s a 10… And 11. Wowzers.


Travis: And I hit him for eight.


Griffin: Twenty-one. Yep.


Travis: So he’s taken 29 points of damage.


Griffin: Yeah, and he is bloody, and he is further down the train, and that was pretty fucking radical.

Griffin: Previously, on the Adventure Zone:


Angus: My name is Angus McDonald, but I am the world’s greatest detective!


Griffin: He says.


Travis: I roll my eyes.


Angus: …Okay!


[laughter]


Angus: I have reason to believe that the serial killer, the Rockport Slayer, is somewhere aboard this train.


Griffin: You hear a high-pitched shriek. [shrieking] Aieee! Lying on the floor you see a body wearing robes… it has been beheaded.


[Travis gasps.]


Griffin: Both of his hands are missing and it has a shimmering rainbow bowtie.


[Others freaking out in the background.]


Travis: We should have appreciated him while he was alive!


Griffin: Suddenly, a figure starts to take shape on the ceiling.  The three of you follow Angus into the passenger car. You feel a uh, burst of hot air.  The door behind you just blasts open, that fiery crab monster lurches through.


Justin: I cast Levitate on the crab.


Travis: Nice.


Griffin: Uh, okay?


Travis: I’m gonna step up and Phantom Fist it out a window.


Griffin: He gets pushed out the window. He gets, uh, scraped up against the side of the tunnel and train. He’s not outside of the car for very long when you see another burst of flame and he sort of rocket-propels himself back into the train about two cars down.


Travis [interrupting]: Now hold on! Now—


Announcer: Can our heroes solve the greatest mystery of all? Love? Also murder? Let’s find out in The Adventure Zone!


[THEME MUSIC: “Déjà Vu” by Mort Garson (full song on YouTube)]


{1:21}


Griffin: So you just, uh, knocked this crab out the window and grinded it down a little bit, and it rocketed itself back into the car a couple cars down and you are running towards it?


Travis: Yes.


Taako: I did my part, I’m gonna chill here.


Griffin: Okay, so Taako taps out, uh—


Magnus: What, wait, hold on!


Taako: Sitting down and chilling!


Griffin: Uh, the three of you start your pursuit of—


Taako: Two!


Merle: Two!


Griffin: —of the two… [laughing] are you really chilling?


Taako: I’m chilling, I’m almost dead! I’m gonna chill here, I did the whole—I did the whole thing with the floating crab!


Merle: [crosstalk] Don’t worry, don’t worry! Everything’s going to be okay. Trust your party.


Griffin: Mmkay.


Taako: Great.


Griffin: Uh, so Taako’s just gonna kick it? I guess? Uh, so the rest of this fight is just gonna be the Merle and Magnus show—


Merle: No, no, he’s just sitting out for right now.


Taako: Fine I’ll come. I limp behind them, blood gushing from my robes—


Griffin: Uh…


Travis: Ew…


Taako: It’s very pitiful.


Griffin: Okay, uh, the three of you—one of who is gooshing, begin your pursuit. As you open up the passenger car door into the space where you found the corpse, you don’t find the corpse because this entire room has been basically incinerated. The, uh, the walls, the floor, the ceiling, everything is sort of smoky and black, and the only thing on the floor is a pile of black ash where the body of Jenkins used to lay. The drink cart—


Travis: First Barry Bluejeans and now Jenkins?


Griffin: The drink cart in the corner is sort of melted down uh, a little bit—


Taako: Noooooooooo!


[Explosive laughs]


Merle: Not the drink cart!


Taako: This time they’ve gone too far!


Merle: The crab dies.


Taako: The crab is done for.


Griffin: Uh…


Clint: Is this from the fire shooting out of the crab ass?

Griffin: Uh, yeah, the initial burst of flame that you shut the door to uh, to avoid.  As you push on through this darkened chamber you, uh, you begin to make your way through the sleeper car.  You open up the door in this chamber to the sleeper car.  Uh, the cars, the- the sleeping chambers are all lined up to your right, you’re in a  very narrow hallway, and as you make it about halfway through this car, the door on the other end also gets sort of shattered by this crab that is now floating through the air but still sort of flailing its four powerful claws around.


Travis: Is it kind of cute?


Griffin: Uh, it’s kind of adorable, yeah, sure.


Travis: “Reeeeee, I’m a angry crab!,” he seems to say.


Clint: Hey, just for effect, have it crawling along the sidewall, that would look cool.


Griffin: Uh, no it’s just sort of floating impotently through the air, just sort of waving its claws around.


Clint: [grumbling] Aw alright.


Griffin: Uh, and we are back up to the top of the order, which is Merle.


Clint: Ah!


Griffin: Uh, the three of you are about halfway between the doors, in this car, and about 15 feet in front of you is the crab monster who is floating through the air.


Clint: Alright. I-I take out my war—


Griffin: He is bloodied by the way. He is beyond past half health.


Clint: Alright. I take out my warhammer—


Griffin: You don’t have it.


Travis: [crosstalk] You don’t—


Clint: —Just to see a reaction.


Griffin: Well, there it is: you don’t have it.


Clint: I’m just kidding, I’m kidding, no I’ll cast Healing Word.


Griffin: Pretty good, pretty good punk, Nick Cannon.


Clint: [laugh] I’m casting Healing Word on uh—


Griffin: [interrupts] —The crab!


Clint: On Taako.


Griffin: Oh, I see.


Clint: On Taako. And that’s 2d4 plus five.


Griffin: Are you doing Healing Word or Healing Touch?


Clint: Healing Word.


Griffin: Okay.


Clint: I have Cure Wounds, that’s 1d8 plus five.


Griffin: It’s up to you homie.


Clint: Yeah, I’m gonna- I’m gonna go with what I said.


Griffin: Okay.


Clint: I'm gonna go with uh, Healing Word, it’s 2d4 plus five, and so the first one was a three …


Griffin: Pretty good!


Clint: And the second one’s a three.


Griffin: Really good.


Clint: So that’s six, plus five, that cures him for 11, heals him for 11.


Taako: Wooo!


Griffin: Yeah. Does he—


Travis: He springs to his feet, and starts like punching the air.


Clint: And then I reach out, and I drop my Extreme Teen Bible and I say:


Merle: Peace out.


Griffin: Okay. It falls through the floor-


Clint: Nooo!


Griffin: —and it’s destroyed by the train’s wheels. It’s a very heavy bible.


[Travis laughs]


Griffin: Both in terms of weight and subject matter.


Clint: I can’t lose that, so.


Griffin: Next in order is the crab, who stabs two of its claws into the ceiling, stabs one claw into either wall, piercing into one of the sleeping chambers, points its mouth at you, and you see its rows of teeth begin to spin and glow, and then from his pulsating orange mouth a column of flame bursts down the car, at all three of you. Uh, so go ahead and make dexterity saving throws to see if you get out of the way of this column.


Clint: So he casts fire out of his ass and his mouth?


Griffin: This is his mouth.


Travis: I rolled a 19.


Griffin: Okay.


Justin: Twenty.


Griffin: Wow.


Clint: Sixteen.


Griffin: Sixteen. Okay, all three of you simultaneously, uh, I- I guess leap to the right through the door of one of the sleeping chambers, very narrowly avoiding this hallway-sized column of flame that- that shoots down and incinerates basically the carpet below your feet, and that is--


Clint: That was nice carpet too, remember? Remember how nice--


[Everyone choruses agreement about the nice shag carpet]


Griffin: Uh, so yeah.


Taako: Guys? Guys? That was our first moment of competence.


Magnus: Nice!


Merle: Holy crap!


Taako: I hope you all remember.


Magnus: High fives all around.


Clint: And we miss.


Justin: And we miss. We miss the high five. [sound of hands clapping]


Merle: Ow! Right in the face.


Taako: Ah!


[laughter]


Griffin: Uh, okay. Uh, that is it for the crab’s turn. He is still sort of wedged in between uh, the- he’s still sort of positioned himself between the wall and the ceiling to prevent the recoil from sending him rocketing backward down the train. I really love that this fucking crab is floating now. It co- it completely changes this fight in my mind.


Clint: [laughs] I’m glad you’ve embraced it.


Griffin: Yeah. Uh, next in order is Taako. The three of you are now sort of squirreled away in, uh, we’ll say it’s your sleeper chamber. Uh, next to your triple bunk beds, where you just dove in to avoid the spout of flame.


Travis: Is there any other furniture in the room? Is there anything else in the room beside the bunk beds?


Griffin: Uh, there is a small sort of tea table? And, uh, two wooden chairs next to it.


Clint: Any cutlery from, you know, a snack we might have had earlier?


Travis: There’s a spoon on the table.


Griffin: Uh, yeah, there’s a- there’s a teaspoon, and a teacup and a teapot. And a sugar bowl, with some sugar.


Clint: Are- are any of those things shaped like a knife or an axe, or a club?


Griffin: The spoon could be shaped like a club if you were a very small person with a big imagination.


[Clint laughs]


Clint: [singing] There is no life I know…


Griffin: Taako-


Travis: Uh-huh! Still fighting!


Griffin: Taako, take the wheel.


Clint: [singing] Taako take the wheel.


Justin: I’m casting Melf’s, uh, Acid Arrow.


Clint: Milf?


Griffin: Mel’s? Hi I’m Mel, and this is my favorite Acid Arrow.


[laughter]


Travis: I hope you enjoyed my Acid Arrow kids!


Clint: And don’t tell me to kiss your grits!


Griffin: Okay.


Travis: Is that a reference to something?


Justin: What on the- on the earth?


Clint: Alice.


Justin: You’re appealing to a demographic that we do not- does not exist—


Griffin: —That does not— that doesn’t exist in the world!


Clint: That’s why I’m here!


Griffin: To talk to ghosts?


[laughter]


Justin: Melf’s ice, uh, Melf’s Acid Arrow.


Griffin: Mel— First, first of all move toward the mic, second of all is that this is a spell that was created by a man named Mel—


Justin: Mel-Melf.


Griffin: Or a woman named Mel.


Justin: Melf. It’s Mel B’s scary Acid Arrow. Mel B’s scary spice Acid Arrow. [Griffin laughs] Uh, “A shimmering green arrow streaks toward a target and bursts with a spray of acid, make a ranged attack against the target. On a hit the target takes 4d4 acid damage immediately and 2d4 acid damage at the end of its next turn.”


Griffin: Wow! Shit!


Clint: [crosstalk] Scary Spice was the most dangerous of all the Spice Girls.


Griffin: [crosstalk] I mean, that’s obviously not debatable.


Clint: Right.


Griffin: Sporty— Sporty I don’t know. Actually—


Travis: [crosstalk] I was always most terrified by Baby, but I think that’s just ‘cause of like, weird issues, I don’t know.


Justin: Okay, I’m making a ranged attack.


Travis: Oh yeah, sorry.


Griffin: Okay. Are you poking your head out the, you’re moving back to the hallway—


Justin: Yes, sort of just like sticking out my umbrella out the door, and blasting—


Griffin: I fucking love it.


Clint: Holy crap! He didn’t make that up! That’s a real spell!


Justin: Thank you.


Griffin: Uh, okay. So you’re just poking your arm out the window—


Justin: And my head. I mean I’m poking my head out.


Griffin: Okay. You’re leaning out of the car to blast—


Justin: [crosstalk] So I can see.


Travis: He’s holding a mirror up out the- out the door.


Griffin: Uh, go ahead and make a ranged attack.


Justin: What do I do? What is that- how do I do that?


Griffin: Uh, you just roll a d20, and add your spell casting modifier to it.


Justin: [dice rolling] Eleven.


Griffin: Eleven total?


Justin: Yeah.


Griffin: That doesn’t do it.


Justin: Okay. So on a miss…


Clint: So their armor does not decrease when they take damage right?


Griffin: Nooo. Are- are you talking about the crab monster or what?


Clint: The crab monster. I guess its shell, I would think it was cracked, and wouldn’t take as much damage.


Justin: Okay so I’m gonna do 2d4… Two—


Travis: On a miss?


Justin: Yeah.


Travis: That’s awesome.


Justin: Just splashes ‘em with acid.


Griffin: Does it says half damage? ‘Cause if that’s the case you actually roll 4d4 and divide in a half.


Justin: Okay.Two, three, one, two. Two, [whispering] two, three, one, two…  Eight.


Travis: [at the same time] Eight.


Griffin: Eight.


Justin: Four.


Griffin: So it takes four damage. Okay, you shoot it, it just sort of, uh, falls to the ground right below it, and some of the acid splashes up onto the crab monster, and it takes four acid damage. You hear it sizzle away, and it actually smells weirdly delicious.


Travis: Mmm!


Clint: That’s what I was gonna say, see if you have a melted butter spell.


Griffin: Ye- yeah it would have to be clarified though.


Clint: Okay. [emphasizes each syllable] A melted butter spell where it melts butter, how’s that for clarification?


Travis: [giggles] Nice.


Griffin: Wow that was good!


Clint: Thank you.


[Both laugh]


Griffin: What a rib tickler, it’s a thinker, and it tickled my ribs.


Clint: It works on a lot of different levels!


Griffin: Magnus!


Travis: We’ll send that into Dad Jokes Weekly. Um, I grab one of the chairs, [pause] from the room.


Clint: Good.


Griffin: [crosstalk] Okay.


Travis: And I run up to the crab, and two-handed clobber it.


Griffin: Alright, we’re gonna have to come up with some numbers. [laughs] For chair!


[Clint laughs]


Griffin: It’s gonna be blunt damage, obviously.


Travis: Yup!


Griffin: Uh…


Clint: It’s a metal chair? I remember you saying that earlier.


Griffin: No I specifically said it was a wooden chair. Wowzers!


Clint: Crap!


Griffin: Um, okay so this is a, uh, a heavy wooden chair— wha— lemme— hold on. [sound of dice rolling]


Clint: Hey can it be one of those La-Z-Boys that’s such a—


Travis: Yeah, I heft the La-Z-Boy over my head.


Griffin: We’ll say this has the same characteristics of a club, I think that’s fair?  I’ll say 1d6, but because you’re so skilled in carpentry I imagine [Clint laughs] that you’ve had to attack somebody with a chair before? So you definitely have expertise on this, that’s not debatable. And you also, like, are just really good at hitting shit with chairs, made out of wood, so I’m gonna say 1d8, you have expertise with it, and I’m gonna give you a point of inspiration: A) for making a makeshift weapon, and B) for picking a makeshift weapon that is so completely within your wheelhouse.


Travis: Thank you. Um, well, if I have expertise with it, then I rolled a 17 plus six, so that’s 23…


Griffin: Okay.


Travis: And then I roll a d8…


Griffin: d8, yeah…


Travis: And I rolled a four, um, if I have expertise it’s plus six, so I hit it for 10.


Griffin: Okay. You hit it for 10 damage, loosing it from the wall and ceiling where it had perched itself, so it’s now sort of just floating aimlessly backward down the uh—


Clint: Argh! It’s still alive?!


Griffin: —hallway. Uh, yes but it is very, very, very bad off.


Clint: It is almost impossible to get rid of crabs, have you noticed that?


Griffin: Oh, man!


Travis: [crosstalk] I have.


Griffin: [laughs]


Travis: Bringing the heat!


Griffin: [Clint laughs] You are really on some next level shit right now Daddy! Uh, you hear the door—


Travis: [interrupts] What— wait, what happens to the chair in my hand, is it remain whole or does it—


Griffin: Oh no, sorry, it explodes, it shatters in your hand. You just broke— you broke this shit off, in its ass.


Clint: Yeah!


Griffin: Uh, the door to the passenger car behind you slides open, and you see an imposing, almost square figure filling the doorway. Uh, and this figure runs at full speed towards Magnus’s position, towards the crab, and as this figure moves forward you make it out as Jess the Beheader, who sprints towards the crab at lightning speed, does this sort of like Ong Bak jump off one wall, and then another, and then sort of cannon ball flies at this crab, and then in mid-air, you see the shape of her axe, uh, just appear in her hands. And she brings it down, on this floating fire crab. And she—


Travis: And she misses! [laugh]


Griffin: —she literally crit, that’s not a fakey fake bullshit thing, I’ll Facetime you the dice, but she crit, she crit on this crab; there was a 5 percent chance she was gonna crit, and it happened.


Clint: A crab crit.


Justin: A crab crit. I waited a whole show for this.


Griffin: Pan, Pan, Pan is good, thank you for the crit.


[Clint laughs]


Griffin: Uh, she, uh… [sound of dice rolling four times]


Clint: … Rolls dice until she gets what she wants.


Griffin: She does 29 damage, uh, cutting the crab into two pieces, uh, and—


Travis: [interrupting] And Magnus raises his hand and says



Magnus: I did 29 damage punching it out a window, [Clint laughs] it’s not that big a deal guys, alright? We all do 29 points of damage!


Griffin: And as its two composite halves float through the air, uh, both pieces of its corpse turn to ash—


Clint: Noo! I was gonna eat it!


Griffin: —and fall to the ground.


Justin: [snorts] Them’s good eating. I say:



Taako: Hey, great timing!


Travis: And Magnus says:



Magnus: I- I had it.


Griffin: She says, uh:



Jess the Beheader: Sorry I, uh, I had a pretty bad initiative roll.


[Clint laughs]


Travis: “Sorry, I was pooping, it took me a while to get to where you were.”


Justin: [unintelligible] Okay let’s have Dad—


Jess: To be fair it looked like you guys had it handled, but I thought I could help out any way I could.


Justin: Look, let’s just let Dad get it out of his system. I guess we’re the kings now. Is your—


Clint: King crab. Ah!


Justin: [simultaneously] King crab. Okay.


Magnus: We were in a bit of a pinch.


Taako: Right.


Merle: It was kind of a krusty krab.


Justin: Okay. [unintelligible]


Travis: Well that’s just—


Griffin: You just said the name of a thing.


Travis: Yeah, that was not very good.


Clint: Now it was- it was a lowercase c.


Taako: We did a claw-some job.


[all laugh]


Jess: These are all great!


Griffin: She says.


Merle: Okay. We’re done. I’m done. I’m done.


Justin: “I’m done.”


Magnus: Yeah, we don’t wanna be shellfish.


[pause]


Clint: Ooooohh!


Taako: Come on guys, we’re crustacean time.


[Clint laughs]


Griffin: Sorry, did you just say “We’re crustacean time”?


Clint: Okay.


Justin: Yeah it’s like wastin’ time.


Clint: So does this mean—


Travis: You get it!


Clint: —we don’t get experience from this kill?


Griffin: No she stole your—she KS’d you bruh. She rolled up on that mob you were camping, KS’d it right from under you.


Clint: [growls] Gah, just like Azeroth, ahh.



Griffin: Uh, I mean I was making some Everquest references but--


Justin: Did you ever play Everquest, Dad? Let’s talk about that.


Griffin: Let’s take a moment, let’s just take the next 10 minutes, ‘cause I didn’t have anything else to talk about before we do the break, and let’s talk about Dad’s Everquest experience.


Justin: Did you ever play Everquest, Dad? I don’t remember.


Clint: I did play Everquest, yeah. And it’s alright.


Griffin: Uh no, you guys actually did get some experience points, I was just goofing. But no loot, um, there is no loot that came out of the, unless you like crab ash, in which case…


Travis: Would you say- would you say the experience, and- and like the- the victory, was its own reward?


Griffin: Uh yeah, I would say that you feel fulfilled on a deep spiritual level.


Travis: I got to use the chair!


Griffin: Yeah, you used a chair, you punched a thing out a window, it was pretty—


Clint: [interrupts] Yeah, and we all acknowledge, that was really great when you used the chair! Geez, god [grumbles]…


Travis: Thank you.


Clint: I think we wanna— I wanna find out a little bit more about, uh, Jess the Beheader.


Travis: I turn to Jess and say:



Magnus: Hey that-that glow, that like, spiritual axe thing was pretty damn sweet!


Jess: Oh, it’s not spiritual, it’s just soulbound to me. Um, I can- I can just sort of bring it- bring it to me whenever I need it.


Magnus: Can I have it?


Jess: Oh no, absolutely not, ‘cause it’s not soulbound to you!


Magnus: Well could we soulbound, like is it like a- like we- blood brother kind of thing, where like we cut our palms, shake hands, and then I can use it too?


Griffin: She says, uh:


Jess: Listen, as the, the world heavyweight champion, of the WWE, uh, I know my way around some good chair usage, and that was--


Taako: What’s that— what’s that stand for again?


Jess: The Midworld… Wrestling… Federation.


[laugh]


Merle: Spelled without the F.


Magnus: Yeah, and, uh- and without the M.


Jess: Well, there was a lawsuit, the-- it’s very very complicated. Um, anyway I- I know good chair usage when I see it, so I do actually want you to have this axe.


Griffin: —And she hands the handle—


Clint: [crosstalk] Oh my god!


Griffin: —Hands the handle towards you and she says,



Jess: I- I just want you to know that uh, I-- I’m just very impressed.


Griffin: —She says, and puts the handle in your direction.


Magnus: Thank you.


Travis: I take it.


Griffin: Uh, as you take it, it disappears from your hand and reappears in hers. She goes,



Jess: [laughs] Ahah! Ahah! Gahahahah!


Travis: We both have a good laugh.



Jess: That’s-- That’s one of my favorites!


Griffin: —She says.



Magnus: That was pretty good! I’m Magnus, “The Hammer.”


Clint: But good job reinforcing your- your image as a panhandler, so.


Travis: Thank you. Listen, you only get what you ask for in this life, Dad.


Griffin: Uh, she says,


Jess: Ah! What was it? Magnus the hammer? Or—


Magnus: Magnus, “The Hammer.”


Jess: Okay. Is the-- is “The Hammer” your last name?


Magnus: No! Is “The Beheader” your last name?


Jess: Uh, legally yes, I got it changed to, for my brand—


Magnus: [interrupts] Then me too!


Merle: Actually Magnus is his stage name—


Taako: —His stage name, his--


Merle: His real name is Diddley.


Magnus: Listen guys, we just blasted a giant crab, I think we’re past the point of fake names.


[Griffin laughs]


Merle: I don’t think so.


Magnus: I do.


Clint: Who’s running this heist?


Travis: Magnus is making a unilateral decision.


Griffin: I am just— I just want to say, when I was writing this- this mystery chapter, how certain I was that the three of you were not going to be capable of introducing yourselves to the characters I was creating. And you have fulfilled that prophecy, just with flying colors.


Griffin: Uh, she says:


Jess: Do you guys have any idea where that thing came from?


Merle: The beach…?


[Justin and Travis laugh]


        Magnus: It was on the ceiling. I think it came from the ceiling.


Taako: Yeah, well, uhhhh…[long pause] Let me ask you a question: can we shoot straight?


Jess: Yeah.


Taako: Why are you on the train? Do you have like a weird crazy reason for being on the train?


Merle: [crosstalk] Everybody else has!


Taako: Are you just like, on the train? Nobody’s like, just on this train. Are you on the train? Just on the train?


Jess: I’m on the train, yeah, I’m doing a hype tour for my upcoming match, my upcoming fight. And uh, I’m going to Neverwinter to do a junket.


Griffin: She says.


Merle: Who you- who you fighting?


Jess: Oh I’m fighting… Greg the Leg… Leg-cutter.


[Justin laughs]


Magnus: Oh, I’ve heard about him.


Jess: It’s supposed to be a pretty good matchup because like, I swing high, he swings low.


Merle: Greg the Leg-leg-better?


Taako: Just— his name is Greg the Leg-leg-cutter?


Merle: His name was Greg the Bed-wetter-lead-wetter but he realized that wasn’t as good.


Jess: And his favorite song was Yellow Ledbetter. But now he’s just Greg “The Leg” Leg-cutter.


Taako: And his wrestling uniform is red leather, yellow leather.


[laughter]


Jess: But no, I have a great reason for being on this train. Why, do you suspect me of something, huh?


Taako: No, it’s just like everyone has a crazy reason— like, we said we were here for- I don’t even remember!


[Griffin laughs]


Magnus: It just, it’s all gone to hell.


Taako: It’s all gone to hell, there was a crab, and then Encyclopedia Brown showed up and he left, and then Jenkins died, that was okay, and then— [Griffin laughs] you have this axe, it’s magical—it’s been a really exhausting day, I’m Justin? I think.


Magnus: Holy shit. Okay wait. Uh, excuse me for just one second, Jess, I need to talk to my compatriots for just a moment.


Jess: Yeah that’s fine, I’m gonna go check out the uh, the uh, scene of the crime, see if there’s anything I can do to help.


Griffin: She says, and walks back towards the passenger car.


Magnus: [crosstalk] Cool cool, yeah, do that, do that.


Magnus: You guys… Jenkins was beheaded, it’s there in the name, she’s the only one we’ve seen with an axe so far, and it was a clean beheading.


Merle: That’s true. But… how do we know for sure it was Jenkins?


Magnus: I don’t know that we do, why else you remove the head and hands? And the hands were done separately, ‘cause the cuts were not as clean.


Merle: Hmm. So maybe whoever took the hands, didn’t take the head? But if you took the hands then there’d be no fingerprints, and if you took the head there’d be no dental work, and you couldn’t identify who it really was.


Taako: Unless there was some sort of… magic, but who’s ever heard of such a thing. Oh wait a minute, it’s D&D! This isn’t CSI, papá, [laughter] we don’t need fingerprints— we’re not gonna send it to the lab! What are you talking about?!


Merle: Let me tell you something. If we send it to the lab, we’ll be… lab rats.


Clint: YEEEEEEEEEEEEEEAAAAAAAAAAAaaaaaahhh!


Travis: [crosstalk] Yeah, that’s not good.


Griffin: [crosstalk] But that’s not—that doesn’t even work, ‘cause it—


Justin: [crosstalk] He just removed—he literally removed his glasses, for an audience of me.


Griffin: Oh for—that’s fine, but this isn’t like a fucking Redwall RPG! You’re not rats!


Travis: [laughs] If we were rats. Okay wait, is it too late to retcon that we’re all rats? Or ratcon?


Griffin: Yeah, this a Redwall RPG, and…


Travis: Okay, whew! Now do the joke, Dad, do the joke now.


Clint: …I’m not in the mood anymore now.


Travis: Ah… see Griffin, you ruined it.


Griffin: Yeah, nor I. Yeah, I’m the one who ruined that.


Justin: He’s not a dancing rat.


Travis: I don’t get that one.


Clint: Alright. It— we’re in NIMH.


Magnus: Okay. so, the only people we’ve ever encountered on this train, are Jess, Jenkins--


Griffin: God I hope you’ve been taking notes.


Magnus: Yeah. Jess, Jenkins, Angus…


Merle: Graham?


Taako: Graham the juicy wizard.


Magnus: And the conductor. Or the engineer.


Merle: Who we haven’t seen hide nor hair of…


Magnus: And so if someone killed Jenkins, or someone killed someone, it’s one of those five, or someone we haven’t seen before.


Merle: [laughs] Yeah I’d say that’s right.


Griffin: So it’s either one of those five people, or someone on the planet.


Merle: [crosstalk] Or anybody else.


Magnus: Well it’s not Angus.


Taako: Is it me?


Magnus: It might be Taako. Has anyone kept an eye on Taako the whole time?


Taako: I’m literally asking. I have spells.


Magnus: I think the thing that we need to do, is interrogate the only other person that was at the scene of the crime. [pause] We need to talk to juicy wizard.


Merle: We do. We need to squeeze the juicy wizard.


Travis: There it is.


Griffin: There’s a joke! There’s a joke that works!


Justin: That was a joke.


Clint: I’m done, I haven’t got anything else. I’m just gonna sit back here.


Griffin: You’re throwing- you’re throwing a lot of spaghetti at the wall, but like, our listeners can’t choose what spaghetti to eat. They’re eating all the spaghetti that is thrown. And some of it, some of it has floor dirt. [Justin laughing]


Travis: Griffin, you’re getting pretty saucy.


Clint: Hahahaha, it’s linguine.


Griffin: I’m in hell.


{26:15-30:17 ad break}


Griffin: Let the investigation begin! I want- I want y’all to get NCIS on this shit.


Taako: I think we should talk to Graham.


Travis: Uh, I smack Graham in the face, and say:


Magnus: Wake up!


Griffin: Okay, you’re suddenly in the passenger car, um, you slap Graham in the face, he is laid out on one of the benches on the right side of the passenger car. In the passenger car is Angus, who is looking all around that chamber in between the cars where the murder took place, or I should say where the corpse was found, you don’t know whether or not the murder actually took place there. And Jess the Beheader, who is just sorta chilling. I don’t know what she’s doing. Listen, I’m controlling like six human minds at once in this thing.


Clint: You’re remarkable, Griffin.


Griffin: I’m pretty amazing, I basically have six normal brains. Or maybe one brain that’s six times the size of a normal person’s brain.


Clint: I need to ask a question.


Griffin: Yup.


Clint: Is this- is this the big parlor scene, where the detective figures it out and unveils the secret? Because—


Travis: Well, only time will tell, Dad.


Clint: Okay, then let me ask another question: are we agreed that we’re doing away with the whole ruse that we’re these other people—


Justin: We can’t make that decision out of character. If we’re gonna make that decision we have to talk about it.


Clint: Okay.


Merle: [exaggerated scottish accent] Alright lads.


Justin: Oh fuck.


Merle: Are we givin’ up— [Griffin laughs] Are we givin’ up the fake identities?


Taako: Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.


Magnus: [crosstalk] Yes. A thousand times yes.


Merle: Good. Then I cast Zone of Truth.


Griffin: How many Zones of Truth did you fucking prepare?! Were you like “Good morning everybody, give me like 30 minutes to stock up on all my truth zones!”


Clint: It failed! And you said we rested and got everything back!


Griffin: Uh, okay so you’re busting out your- you’re just like a Zone of Truth cleric.


Clint: I don’t bring a lot to the table!


Griffin: With no healing, no fiery beams of purifying, sanctified light required, I just make people tell the truth.


Clint: Well, yeah. Simplifies things.


Travis: Before I wake up Graham— is he still passed out? Is he still out?


Griffin: Uh, no, he has a cool compress on his forehead, uh, and he’s- he’s lying there, he’s white as a sheet, and he is trembling, uh he looks- he looks a little green around the gills.


Travis: I still smack him.


Griffin: Mmkay, you smack him as hard as you can, and he says—


Travis: No, I didn’t say as hard as I can, I smack him… 20 percent.


Griffin: Okay, uh… just 20 percent? That’s still h—


Travis: Twenty percent.


Griffin: That’s hard enough to kill some things.


Travis: Okay, 5 percent.


Griffin: Okay, 5 percent, you shatter all of his teeth and—


Travis: With my left hand. With my left hand.


Griffin: Oh, with your left hand. Okay. Well then, uh, he takes the slap at 5 percent force, and sits up and goes:


Graham: What are you doing man, I was awake!


Magnus: …no, you need to wake up!


Graham: I was awake! I was conscious!


Magnus: No I mean, I mean like metaphor- like metaphorically, wake up!


Graham: Du— what? That hurt a lot!


Magnus: Well, you’ll hurt a lot worse—


Merle: [crosstalk] ‘Cause this shit is getting real.


Magnus: [deeper] It’ll hurt a lot worse if you lie to me.


Graham: I know this shi— okay, am I— are you interrogating me? What’s going on?


Magnus: It seems like it.


Taako: Listen, I’m sorry about my partner, he can come on a little strong.


Travis: I walk to the back and cross my arms and start fuming.


Merle: We’re doing bad adventurer, good adventurer.


Taako: Listen. Help me out here.


Graham: But there’s three of you, so is one of you just a neutral adventurer?


Magnus: It’s good adventurer, bad adventurer, adventurer reading a book.


Graham: Okay.


Taako: I— listen, my partn— help me out, this guy’s a loose cannon. Give me something to work with here, what did you see in the car, we found with you a uh, a corpse that looks kind of like Jenkins, did you— what did you- what did you see, what happened?


Graham: It was Jenkins, it was Jenk—I was sitting here, in the passenger car, I decided that I wanted to go and see if I could take a round on the pleasure chamber, and so I walked back and when I opened the door to the- to the sleeper car, I saw a th- I saw a corpse on… I saw a body on the ground, without a… ugh…


Griffin: He faints.


Travis: I step back up and I smack him. This time 6.5 percent.


Graham: Whoa! That smack hurt 1.5 percent more than the last one, how— what are you doing to me?



Magnus: You don’t get out of this by passing out, Juicy.


Justin: Well statistically speak— I- I mean, not to quibble, but if- if it was 6.5 percent, it would hurt a little over 20 percent more than the one before it, because the one that preceded it had been 5…


Graham: Well I took an estimate—I took an educated guess at what 100 percent of his smack would feel like, and so…


[Travis laughs]


Taako: Okay. That made sense to me. Okay.


Magnus: Graham—


Merle: Want a cup of coffee? Can I get you a little something?


Graham: That would be great, except the dri- the drink cart just got obliterated, so I don’t know how you’re gonna do that. I keep slipping into Angus!


[Clint laughs]


Travis: I look at Graham and say,


Magnus: When you saw the body, did it have hands?


Graham: No! There were no hands, it had been b-beheaded and behanded.


Magnus: And you had- and you had been in the passenger car.


Graham: I was in the passenger car, yeah, I was in here with—


Magnus: For how long?


Graham: Uh, for about 20 minutes or so. Uh, uh, uh, I was in here with Jess, um, she- she was in here too when I walked back to- to  check out the—to- to go to the pleasure chamber, and uh…



Magnus: We heard a shriek, was that you, Graham?


Graham: I don’t remember shrie— I have a pretty gravelly, mature…


Magnus: Graham…


Graham: …masculine voice, so I don’t think, uh…


Magnus: Graham…


Merle: Why don’t you use it?


Graham: This is it.


Magnus: [crosstalk] Oh snap.


Merle: Hey listen, I couldn’t find any coffee, but they had these little Andes mints, you know those little chocolate mints, here, have a couple of those, and just answer the nice— the nice men.


Magnus: Wait are we doing good cop, bad cop, mom cop?


Graham: Okay. Thanks mom.


Griffin: He says, and takes them, and unwraps them.


Taako: That’s really good, ‘cause now he’s safe from dementors, too.


[Travis laughs]


Griffin: He says, um [makes eating noises].


Travis: Let him finish.


Merle: Or did that come from the ex-lax box?


Graham: Oh god. Um. Let me— let me think. Um.


Merle: Yeah, it was the ex-lax box. You better hurry.


Graham: So, now that I’m on a pretty tight schedule,


Justin: So wait, good cop, bad cop, diarrhea cop?


[Laughter] {36:38}


Justin: Is that what we’re doing?


Graham: Uh, the last time I saw Jenkins was, uh, it was just a few minutes before I found him. He- he came up and he did a drink service up here. Uhm, he- he went to the, the front of the train and then brought us back drinks and then went back towards the back of the train. And then I- I went back there a few minutes later to see if he could take me to pleasure town.


Taako: This next part’s extremely important.


Graham: Go.


Taako: When he was doing the drink service, did you notice him setting aside any drinks or anybody taking extra drinks they might have been putting aside for later? Are there somewhere on the train we can find some drinks?


[Clint wheezing]


Graham: I don’t think so. I—


Taako: Think about it carefully! You didn’t even think.


Merle: This is really important. Just help him out.


Taako: The drink cart is gone.


Merle: He’s got the shakes pretty bad.


Taako: I’ve already got the shakes.


Magnus: Taako needs his medicine.


Taako: Daddy needs his special magic juice.


[Clint laughing]


Taako: No, but what were we saying? Jenkins… ah. Try again.


Magnus: Jess! Can you corroborate this story? Like, you were here the whole time, right?


Griffin: Uh, Jess looks back at you, uhh, she says:


Jess: Yeah I was, yeah I was here the whole time. Uh, and he was here too. I saw him shriek and then fall down like uh, some sort of small child.


Magnus: Uh-huh.


Jess: And the door shut behind him. Uhh, I- I gotta be honest, I didn’t think anything of it. I just, I thought maybe he was having a conniption or something. Um.


Taako: Jess, you didn’t kill Jenkins, did you? I only ask because of the beheader y’know.


Jess: The what?


Taako: To be thorough. The Beheader, y’know Jess the Beheader?


Jess: No, that’s like a stage— that’s a thing I do for work! I don’t— do you go— sorry, what’s your job?


Taako: Wait, you didn’t answer—


Jess: No, before I insult you, I need to know what your job is.


Taako: Me?


Jess: Yeah.


Merle: Bodyguard! Oh, no we’re not doing that anymore.


Taako: I’m… I’m Justin! [others laugh] …Taako?


Magnus: Mhm.


Jess: You are—you are impossible to talk to, and this is the worst conversation I’ve ever done.


Taako: I’m a shitty wizard! I just wanna know if you killed Jenkins or not.


Jess: Of course I didn’t.


Taako: Okay.


Jess: Do you—do you— do you adventure on your free time? No! I only behead people when I need to, or when I’m being paid to do it, for entertainment.


Magnus: To be fair, living is the greatest adventure.


Jess: [laughter] …I guess!


Magnus: Jess and Graham are each other’s alibis. We were with Angus, so that only leaves the condu-


Merle: Well, how long was the body back there?


Griffin: Graham says, uh, Graham says:


Graham: I saw Jenkins just a few minutes before I found him. So whenever it happened, must have been in that period of time.


Taako: Hey, did you get into the pleasure chamber? Or were you going to go get access.


Graham: Uh, [he says,] no, uh, when I was on my way there, uh, I saw a dead body that was decapitated, and had its hand—


Magnus: And that was not your pleasure request.


Graham: Hands cut… no it was…


Griffin: He falls down again, he’s fainted.


Travis: I smack him 7.2 percent.


Griffin: Uh, okay, you hear something pop, [Travis laughs] uh, and he goes:


Graham: [prolonged screaming]



Travis: [laughing] I meant 6.8!


Graham: [continues screaming]


Travis: I meant six point—I smack him with the other hand and pop it back into place.


Graham: [tone of screaming changes]


Clint: I cast Cure Wounds and fix his broken jaw!


Griffin: Okay, do you have to roll to do that?


Clint: God, yes, Jeminy God… [grumbles]


Magnus: Hey listen, I- I only have the one setting. And it’s, 7.2.


Clint: Alright, I roll a, it’s a d8, dadadadada…


Travis: Aw man, why didn’t we cast Cure Wounds on Jenkins?


[Griffin laughs]


Clint: ‘Cause his head was cut off!


Travis: Well you would have had to roll really well, don’t get me wrong.


Clint: Uh, d8 plus five… ooh! Uh, I rolled an eight! And plus five, 13.


Griffin: Oh, your best- your best healing yet, and it’s on the jaw that Travis just broke. Okay, you see uh, Graham’s jaw, uh, magically set back into place, and both of his cheekbones are starting to turn a deep purple. Uh—


Clint: Okay, and I grab the front of Magnus’s shirt, and I say,


Merle: Come on, man! Come on, we’re not getting anywhere with this approach!


Clint: Was that good? Was that good?


Griffin: That was really good. And Graham says, uh,


Graham: [like his mouth is full of cotton] Oh, man, that feels way better, thank you. Ugh.


Magnus: Wait, did it heal him into a mouthful of marshmallows?


Graham: What are you talking about I sound— I sound totally normal!


Taako: Oh god! This is his normal voice? Break his jaw again!


Justin: Can somebody… okay. Travis.


Travis: Yeah.


Clint: Recap.


Graham: [still cotton-mouthed] I can tell you everything again. One more time.


Magnus: Okay. No, you—


Merle: No. Shush. Shush.


Taako: No more from you.


Merle: Quiet, mushmouth.


Magnus: Here’s what we’re looking at.


Taako: Okay.


Magnus: In the passenger car, we had Jess and Graham together. In the sleeper car, we three and Angus were together. Jenkins entered the passenger car, offered drinks…


Graham: [practically unintelligibly] He went in the— he went in the conductor car too, to go bring hu— him drinks.


Magnus: He went where?


Graham: He went in the conductor car, to bring him—


Magnus: He went in the conductor car.


Graham: To bring him drinks.



Magnus: And when he came out of the conductor car, did he seem different in any way?


Graham: Yeah, his head was gone. Nah, just kidding, he was fine!


Justin:  …Okay, let’s go to the conductor car. Walk walk walk walk.


[laughter]


Clint: Wait a minute! [foley for heavy footsteps]


Griffin: Oh god! Do- do yo- do all of you have a lead foot?


Travis: We’re jumping. We’re jumping down the car.


Clint: [crosstalk] Here we are! At the conductor car!


Griffin: Okay. Uh, you hop like little bunnies to the uh, to the conductor car, or the- the uh, front of the passenger car in the space between that and the engine car. It’s not a conductor by the way, it’s an engineer. I don’t know why I keep saying conductor. Keep getting my train jobs confused. The high security door into the engine car is sealed shut, there—


Travis: I knock shave-and-a-haircut.


Griffin: Mmkay. I’m sur—


[foley for knocking]


Griffin: There it is. Uh, and you hear the voice of— God, what did I say his name was? Hudson!


Clint: Wow.

Justin: Hudson?


Griffin: Hudson. Yeah.


Clint: Hudson.


Griffin: Hudson Hon—


Travis: ‘Cause I was tryna make a Hudson Hawk joke and I couldn’t get to it.


Griffin: Yeah.


Clint: And I was trying to make an Ernie Hudson joke, and I couldn’t get to it.


Justin: And I was just trying to play D&D. [Laughter] With my family.


Griffin: Uh, you hear the engineer’s voice come from a, uh, small cone above the door, uh, sort of a megaphone system. You hear him go, uh,


Hudson: [through a speaker] Hello, uh, is everything o-- going okay back there? It’s— everything’s going—


Magnus: Um…


Hudson: Yep, we’re having a pretty smooth trip, we should be there in about an hour or so, so uh…


Magnus: Great, Jenkins is dead.


Hudson: Jen- Jenkins is… dead?


Magnus: Yeah.


Taako: He- he was the one with the bowtie, don’t feel bad, I forgot too.


Magnus: Bowtie?


Hudson: Jenkin-- Jenkins was a dedicated employee of the Rock—!


Magnus: Now he’s just a dead employee.


Taako: He’s a dead employee!


Magnus: We all got there.


Hudson: Cutting goofs about this, huh? It doesn’t seem like the right time or place for that.


Magnus: Listen, we just need to know, is there anyone else on the train?


Hudson: No, I can— I- I can show you the manifest, but I don’t think I should come out of here, especially now. I can’t open up the engine car to- to whoever did this heinous crime.


Magnus: So, it was just you, Angus, Jess, Graham, the three of us, and Jenkins.


Hudson: Yeah, that’s it, that’s everybody on the manifest.


Merle: John-boy, Elizabeth, Jim-bob…


Hudson: I don’t know what you’re talk— none of those, no, it’s just us, just the people that you named.


Magnus: Listen, we need access to the caboose. We have to get to our secure item.


Hudson: You can go in the caboose whenever you want! You just can’t- you can’t get in the- the- the safe.


Merle: We— I think we need our weapons, is what we need.


Taako: We need our weapons.


Hudson: I can’t do that, I have no guarantee that it’s not the three of you that didn’t kill our poor Jenkins!


 Magnus: We promise it wasn’t.


[Clint laughs]


Hudson: How was Jenk- How was Jenkins killed? Tell me! I- I need to know.


Magnus: He was beheaded.


Taako: And then behanded.


Merle: And then burned up.


Magnus: Yeah.


Hudson: It seems like the person on the train that goes by the name “The Beheader” might know something about that!


Magnus: No, we asked. We asked.


Taako: We did. We asked, she’s—


Hudson: And what, she just said, “No, it wasn’t me,” and y’all were like, “Cool!”?


Magnus: I mean, she, like-- yeah!


Taako: [crosstalk] She had a Zone of—


Merle: She has a corroborating witness for her alibi.


Taako: Well and there was a magic spell cast on her, so.


Hudson: [sighs]


Merle: Why don’t you open the door, and we pinky-swear, I will pinky-swear!


Hudson: [crosstalk] I’m not opening this door, there’s no way. We can talk about this when we get to Neverwinter, when the authorities can be involved.


Magnus: Here’s what we’re gonna do. You keep this door secure.


Hudson: Deal. I like that part of it so far, it’s going very great.


Magnus: ‘Kay. The six of us are going to move from here, to the caboose.


Hudson: Okay.


Magnus: We’re going to search every car until we get to the caboose.


Hudson: Okay.


Magnus: And if we get to the back, and there’s anything wrong…


Merle: We’re jumping off.


Magnus: We’re gonna need access to our secure item.


Hudson: Well don’t do that, ‘cause we’re— you’ll be killed. Sorry, what? What was the last thing you said?


Magnus: If we get to the back, and anything’s amiss, anything’s wrong, we’re going to need access to our secure item, it can’t fall into the wrong hands.


Hudson: It’s gonna take me an— the cryptsafe takes one hour of sustained contact from me, the engineer of this train, to open. So by the time I get it open for you, we’ll be in Neverwinter, and the authorities can- can handle this themselves.


Magnus: Sounds great.


Taako: Okay, but we need our weapons.


Hudson: I can’t do that, I’m sorry.


Magnus: Can’t you? Is it “can’t,” or “won’t”?


Merle: Can’t you?


Hudson: In order to give you your weapons, I’ll have to leave this car, and that’s not happening. ‘Cause I-- you know why?


Magnus: Don’t you want to be a can-ductor?


[Clint laughs]


Hudson: I wanna be a… well first of all, I’m an engineer.


Magnus: But don’t you wanna be a can-ductor? Isn’t that your dream? Look in your heart.


Hudson: No, an engineer is on like a way higher pay grade than a conductor.


Magnus: Yeah, but I mean, it’s a lot more responsibility, too. Remember you saying to me earlier you were stressed out?


Merle: [crosstalk] Why don’t you be—


Hudson: You know what I— you know what I wanna be more than anything?


Magnus: What’s that?


Hudson: Just a guy… with a head.


[laughter]


Magnus: Well we all wanna be that.


Merle: Wouldn’t you like to be a friend-gineer?


Hudson: Okay. Uh, I’m gonna go ahead and shut off this channel, uh—


Magnus: That sounds about right.


Hudson: You guys let me know if you figure out who did this murder, and uh, hopefully—


Taako: Hey, let me, let— can I have— can I say something?


Hudson: [Crosstalk] Yep!


Taako: Yeah, you uh, you didn’t take my weapon. See this?


Hudson: I can’t, see that. What is, can you—


Taako: Open the-- open the window that may or may not exist.


Hudson: Nope.


Merle: Yeah, we need to give you some other weapons.


Hudson: Okay.


Taako: I have a weapon, here.


Hudson: I’m starting to feel a little bit threatened, so I’m gonna go ahead and go. Uh, if you—


Magnus: Okay.


Taako: You can’t— uh, if you go, I’ll fuck your train up real bad!


[laughter]


Hudson: Okay.


Taako: It’s gonna be brutal in here.


Hudson: So now I’m starting to feel like—


Justin: I cast Prestidigitation, and he smells something that smells like dookie. And I— and I say—


Hudson: Oh sir, I guarantee you it doesn’t smell any worse than my own hand.


[explosive laughter]


Taako: And this, that’s just a sneak preview, baby. There’s lots more where that came from.


Hudson: So you’re telling me you’re gonna stink up this whole train. All of it.


Taako: And then burn it down!


Hudson: Okay.


Magnus: We need to search.


Hudson: Okay. Have fun!


Griffin: He says, and you hear “Click! Zzzt.”


Taako: He called my bluff.


Merle: Good one though, good try.


Magnus: Alright.


Clint: So we have no access to the, the- the little pleasure closet without—


Travis: Without the rod.


Clint: —without Jenkins, there’s no way that can be used, right?


Griffin: Uh, you can go check it out.


Travis: Oh, wait. This is, this, wait—


Clint: That has to be the— we—


Travis: —classic, classic detective shit. If his rod is missing, right? Whoever killed him took it. So everybody in the room, turn out your pockets.


Griffin: Mmkay. Uh, are you— where are you?


Travis: We’re still in the passenger car.


Clint: Well, we need to go back into the, the car where everybody is.


Griffin: Yeah. Everybody’s in the passenger car right now. Angus is in the space where the- the scene of the crime, just sort of going over everything. Uh, Graham is still lying down. Still supine. And Jess is just sort of looking out the window.


        Magnus: Alright. Turn out your pockets.


Griffin: Uh, Jess goes:


Jess: Uhhh, no!


Griffin: And Graham goes:


Graham: Uh… okay.


Griffin: And uh, Angus does as well. So, Angus and Graham outturn their pockets. Uh, Graham has some Andes mints in his folds.


Merle: You’re welcome.


Griffin: Uh, he doesn’t seem to have diarrhea, so. That’s probably good. Uh, he has his own magic wand, and a spellbook, and that’s it. And Angus has his hand-crossbow, and his Book of Interception and a toolkit. A detective’s toolkit with a, like a mirror on a stick on it and a notebook and a magnifying glass and a dusting kit and a grappling hook and… all kinds of stuff.


Clint: So basically the whole “turn over all your weapons” only applied to us.


Griffin: What do you mean?


Clint: Kid’s got a crossbow! And, what’s-her-name can summon an axe!


Angus: A very- a very well-concealed crossbow!


Griffin: He says.


Taako: Hey, hey listen, I dunno why I didn’t think of this before. Is that everybody’s pockets? It is, right?


Griffin: Uh, Jess, Jess didn’t.


Travis: No, Jess did not want to.


Taako: Well, well Jess refused. Let’s talk to Angus for a second. Hey, Angus.


Angus: Hey! What’s up!


Taako: You’re su— you’re like a great detective, I dunno why you’re letting the babysitter’s club here—


Clint: [laughing]


Taako: —the three of us, like, trying to piece it together—


Angus: I’ve actually been watching you. You’ve been doing a surprisingly good job!


Griffin: He says.


Taako: Thanks for the vote of confidence—


Angus: I’ve already figured it out, of course.


Taako: Yeah, well, why don’t you give us a hint? A little hinteroo.


Angus: Isn’t it more fun if you try and figure it out for yourself?


Griffin: He says.


Merle: NO.


Taako: No.


Angus: I’m pr— I was just kidding, I haven’t really figured it out yet, I was just like putting—


Taako: [bummed] Oh, that’s what I thought, okay.


Merle: [grumbling]


Angus: —listen, I’m a 10-year-old— I’m a 10-year-old boy!


Taako: You’re the, can you give a—


Merle: You’re a 10-year-old douche!


Magnus: Are you the world’s greatest detective… in comparison to your age? Is it a sliding scale thing?


Angus: I’m the best detective in the world, I’m very young, and I’m very, um… I’m, I’m very self-conscious about my age, so I…


Magnus: Great.


Angus: I guess I put on a front. I- I’m glad that I have somebody to talk to about this!


Travis: I turn to Jess!


Angus: I’m going through a lot of changes right—! Oh, okay, bye.


Travis: I turn to Jess.


        Angus: Alright, bye…


[laughter]


Magnus: Jess?


Jess: Yeah?


Magnus: Turn out your pockets.


Jess: Uh, no, I’m good. I’m alright. Thank you.


Magnus: …Okay.


Travis: I collect—


Jess: Turn out your p— Hey! Turn out your pockets!


Travis: Okay I do! I’ve got my grandmother’s knife, um, I’ve got a bedroll… Or it’s my grandfather’s—


Jess: Uh-oh! A knife? It looks like you could probably— you could probably use a knife to cut off a person’s head, huh, don’t you think?


Magnus: It’s like a 2-inch blade.


Jess: Yeah, I mean it would take a while!


Clint: [laughing]


        Magnus: [unintelligible]


Jess: How can you prove that— how can you— no, stop— how can you prove that you didn’t cut this guy’s head off with your grandmother’s knife?


Justin: I do—


Magnus: It’s my grandfather’s!


Justin: Stop! I’m doing a perception check on Jess.


Griffin: ‘Kay. What are you— what are you trying to perceive?


Justin: Uh, I’m just looking at her whole thing to see if there’s any like, anything that seems out of place, stains, uh damage… Uh, anything like that that seems out of order.


Clint: Hey, do you want me to cast Zone of Truth?


Griffin: [laughing] That would be—


Travis: Now hold on.


Griffin: Uh, that would be, that would be an investigation check. If you, if you- if you’re poring over like a specific thing.


Justin: Okay. Investigation check on Jess.


Griffin: Yeah. Perception is if you’re trying to find something, investigation is if you’re trying to learn something about something you know is already there.


Justin: Okay, uh, I got a 12, so. It’s not great.


Griffin: No—


Justin: I’m not a great— I’m not very sleuthy.


Griffin: Well with a 12 you see that she doesn’t have any blood on her. Uhh, she has a little bit of crab ash on her from when she halved the beast you were fighting before. Uh, but yeah, no blood, no signs of, you know, struggle. Her clothes aren’t torn or anything. Her armor, I should say.


Merle: Alright, I guess we’re gonna have to frisk her.


Jess: …Okay, that sounds like it’s gonna be a lotta fun!


Griffin: She says.


[nervous laughter]


Merle: Magnus, you—


Jess: That would be— that’s gonna be a lot- that’s gonna be a ton of fun for all four of us! Do you guys like gambling?


Griffin: She says.


Magnus: Yes.


Taako: [Crosstalk] Sure, yeah!


Jess: Let’s place bets on how far I can throw each of you!


Griffin: [laughing] She says.


Merle: That’s— Are you ‘roided up?! That’s a little aggressive!


Taako: Wait a minute, wait minute, wait a minute, wait a minute!


Justin: I cast Detect Magic.


Griffin: Okay.


Justin: If there’s anything, any magical items in this room, I will see an aura around them.


Griffin: Okay! That’s fine.


Justin: [raspberry noise]


Clint: [hums dramatically] [quietly] The soundtrack…


Griffin: Uhhh, so you pick up on uh, a few things. You pick up on the Book of Interception. You pick up Graham’s magic wand. You pick up the faintest hint of a trace of magic on Jess’s axe. Uh, you pick up your own magical items, of course, yours and Merle’s, uh… Er, yours and… Yeah, yours and Merle’s. You pick up Magnus’s jumping boots, the Railsplitter has some traces of magic on it. You guys have accrued a few magic items at this point. Jess, uh, other than her axe, doesn’t have anything.


Taako: Okay guys, she doesn’t have anything. We’re, she’s—


Merle: So apparently nobody does, in this room.


Takko: She’s clean. So yeah, the room is clean.


Magnus: Let’s move to the—


Taako: The wand is, the rod isn’t in here.


Magnus: Then let’s move to the sleeper car.


Griffin: Okay.


Magnus: And we’ll take a buddy system! My buddy will be Jess.


Jess: I’m not coming.


Magnus: …You are!


Jess: No, I’m good, I’m gonna stay here, and then if I see anybody even remotely threatening, I’m gonna cut ‘em in half! That, here let’s—


Magnus: If you stay here, I stay here.


Jess: Let’s split up our jobs. You guys can, can do your Encyclopedia Brown shit, and I’m gonna stay up here, and I’m gonna cut anybody in half who steps!


Magnus: Ooh, hey! Merle! Leave, uh, Scuttlebug here.


Merle: Oh, good idea.


Griffin: Okay. You wind up the Scuttlebug. What did you— what is it called?


Clint: Scuttle Buddy. I named it Scuttle Buddy.


Griffin: Scuttle Buddy. So you—there’s a—mosquito in this room and it’s killing me. Um. Is that the, wait did you just send the Scuttle Buddy into my room in real life? You wind up the Scuttle Buddy, a, uh, small— it turns towards you and makes a:


Scuttle Buddy: [endearing buzzing noises]


Griffin: —noise. It’s recognizing you as its mother.


Travis: [snorting] It’s imprinting.


Griffin: It’s imprinting, it’s very, very adorable. Uh, it turns away from you and out of its butt, you see a tiny little round nodule pop out of its butt, uh, in front of you.


Merle: [scolding] Scuttle Buddy!


Griffin: And uh, it- it turns back and goes:


Scuttle Buddy: [buzzing]


Griffin: —and starts sort of nudging this little nodule towards you, uh, proud of it.


Magnus: Pick up its poop!


Clint: Oh my god this is the cutest thing ever, why has nobody done a fanart on Scuttle Buddy?


Travis: There was some Scuttle Buddy art!


Scuttle Buddy: [more buzzing]


Clint: Alright. I pick up the nodule. It’s a little sticky!


Griffin: Uh, Scuttle Buddy takes one of its, uh, one of its pincer… legs and points at the side of its own head, and goes:


Scuttle Buddy: [buzzes twice]


Clint: Well, I take the nodule and I… place it… in its head…?


Scuttle Buddy: [laughter-like buzzing]


Griffin: —it says, and uh, it pops it out of its own head. And then it points at you, and then to the side of its own head.


Scuttle Buddy: [buzzing]


Magnus: Oh, put it in your ear.


Clint: Alright. I put it in my ear.


Griffin: Okay. Uh, as you do that, you… you can hear the things in the room around you, almost like they’re being amplified, like there’s a little bit of feedback. Like there’s a little bit of an echo. And the Scuttle Buddy very discreetly climbs up to the ceiling and wedges itself between the ceiling and a light fixture on the ceiling and sets up shop there.


Merle: Probably would’ve been better if Jess hadn’t seen that…


Griffin: Uh, she didn’t.


Magnus: Doesn’t matter. Jess, if anything happens…


Jess: Yeah. You guys got it.


Griffin: And then, uh, in your ear, Merle, you hear:


Scuttle Buddy: [buzzing that sounds like “I love you!”]


Merle: I love you too, Scuttle Buddy.


Scuttle Buddy: [giggle-buzzing]


Clint: [to the tune of “My Little Pony”] My Scuttle Buddy, my Scuttle Buddy…


Travis: [giggling] Um, Scuttle Buddy will be available in all Toys Я Us stores by November 1…


Clint: [laughing]


Griffin: Collect them all! There’s 800 Scuttle Buddies. Each one costs $16.


Travis: See if you can tell the difference!


Griffin: You can’t, they’re very very similar.

Griffin: Previously, on the Adventure Zone:


Angus: If the object of value that the three of you are trying to claim is somewhere on this train, then I have reason to believe that the Rockport Slayer is somewhere on the train too.


Griffin: You see a shadow through the frosted glass of the sleeper car breeze past. You see a large pool of blood on the outside of the closed door. This body is wearing robes. It has been beheaded. Both of its hands are missing and it has a shimmering… rainbow… bowtie.


Everyone: No! No!


Travis: No, we didn’t appreciate him while he was alive!


Clint: Jenkins!


Griffin: The cut through the neck is very clean. You hear a deafening roar come from that room.


Graham: The last time I saw Jenkins was just a few minutes before I found him. He came up and did a drink service up here.


Griffin: You hear the engineer’s voice come from a small cone above the door.


Hudson: Jenkins was a dedicated employee of the Ro—


Magnus: Well now he’s just a dead employee.


Taako: A dead employee!


Clint: I pick up the nodule. It’s a little sticky. I put it in my ear.


Scuttle Buddy: [buzzes as if to say “I love you”]


Merle: I love you too, scuttle buddy.


Announcer: Put on your thinking caps, gumshoes! It’s time to solve a murder in The Adventure Zone!


[Theme music: Déjà Vu by Mort Garson]


{1:53}


Griffin: The three of you are stacked up, SWAT Team style on the door to the cargo car. With—


Travis: Like on each other’s shoulders?


Griffin: No, I mean there’s no, like- you’re not sneaking into an R-Rated movie. You’re about to- you’re about to slice-


Clint: [laughing]


Travis: We’re like Little Rascalling it?


Griffin: No, you’re about to slice the pie with Angus who has his uh- his hand crossbow out. Uh, he’s got his back up to the wall against the door with the hand on the door, ready to go in. Before you all can breach, Angus turns to the three of you and says:


Angus: Now listen, if we find the culprit in this room, you have to promise me that you’ll help me apprehend him. Don’t kill him. Or her. Whoever it is.


Magnus: Ooh, that’s a big ask.


[Justin hisses]


Merle: We really wanna kill him.


Justin: Yeah we—


Magnus: We only know like, two things.


Merle: Jumping away from fire and killing are the only two things we’re really good at.


Griffin: Not—


Taako: We don’t have our weapons, though, so w— it would come down to fisticuffs.


Magnus: That’s true.


Merle: Aw.


Taako: Beat a man to death with your bare hand.


Angus: I’ve found that not killing is pretty easy. I go long stretch- long periods of time without killing anybody.


Travis: [in Angus’s voice] Keeping the demons at bay!


Taako: Hey, listen, we all have droughts, kid. Don’t feel bad.


[laughter]


Griffin: Uhh, he says:


Angus: Okay.


Justin: —cold streaks.


Angus: Breaching in three, two, one—


Magnus: Wait! Wait!


Angus: What- what- Yeah?


Magnus: Angus.


Angus: Yeah?


Magnus: Check your book.


Angus: Okay?


Griffin: He pulls out the Book of Interception that he used to discover your true identities and cracks it open, and says uh:


Angus: What am I looking for here?


Magnus: Is there anything since just before we heard the scream that alerted us to the Jenkins murder or anything after? Any information we should have before we move forward?


Griffin: He flips through the book really quickly:


Angus: This is not a great time for it, we’re about to do some action-packed SWAT shit, but… No I don’t- I don’t see any messages in here.


Magnus: Okay.


Griffin: He says. Uhh:


Angus: Can I breach?


Merle: Yeah. Yeah.


Magnus: [mockingly] Can I breach?


Angus: [crosstalk] Can I breach please?


Magnus: [crosstalk] Excuse me.


Angus: Are you all trained for SWAT hand signals?


Magnus: [crosstalk] No.


Angus: [crosstalk] And know about slicing the pie?


Magnus: Yes.


Angus: Okay.


Merle: Yeah.


Magnus: I’ve had pie.


Angus: [fast talking] Three-two-one-breach!


Griffin: And he uh, slides the door open.


Clint: Slices of pie…


{4:06}


Travis: Can you paint a word picture of how awesome it looks as we breach through?


Griffin: Yeah. You all— the four of you slice the pie in opposing diagonals into the room. Uh, Angus with his weapon drawn, Taako’s got his umbrella which is a little bit less imposing. Merle and Magnus you are unarmed, but you move into the room, a flock of Dougs— doves fly in—



Justin: A flock of—


Travis: A flock of Dougs!


Justin: Not Dougs!


[Clint laughing]


Travis: Doug Doug! Doug Doug Doug!


Griffin: A flock of Dougs fly in behind you and then vanish. And it’s totally sick, uh, the only problem is that there is nobody in the cargo car. It’s com— it’s completely em—


Justin: Aw man.


Travis: Except a bunch of Dougs now.


Griffin: There’s a few Dougs. No, there are no Dougs. The only thing in the cargo car is the crypt-safe. Which is firmly built into the floor of the room. Now the three of you, as you move into the room, actually feel nauseous. For a- a brief moment. But that quickly subsides. And one other curious thing happens as you move into the room: Merle, you up to this point have been able to sort of overhear the awkward forced conversation happening between Jess and Graham in the passenger—


Clint: Right.


Griffin: —car in the front of the train thanks to your—


Clint: [interrupting] Over my scuttle buddy.


Griffin: —your scuttle buddy earpiece. As soon as you move into this room, that earpiece just shorts out. You— you are not hearing anything anymore. As you move into the room. And…


Justin: Griffin.


Griffin: Angus starts overturning the room, looking for clues. Yes, Justin?


Justin: Can I roll a perception check to see if I notice anything awry about the safe?


Griffin: Uh, yeah. You’re- you’re doing an investigation check.


Justin: Yes.


Griffin: On the safe to see if anything is wrong with it.


Justin: Yeah. Uhh, I got a 19. Plus zero. So j— yeah, just a 19.


{6:02}


Griffin: Just a 19? Uh, nope. The- the crypt safe seems totally… intact. There’s uh, it doesn’t seem like it has been, uh, breached or assaulted in any way. It—


Justin: Locked still?


Griffin: It’s still locked up, yeah.


Travis: Did we try the handle? ‘Cause sometimes you like, assume it’s locked and then you like, try the handle and it opens and you’re like, “Ugh.”


Griffin: Yeah and sometimes the crypt safe does the thing where it unlocks the crypt safe right when you try to pop that handle open—


Travis: Yeah.


Griffin: —And it’s like, “God just wait for a second. I’ll go and then you go.”


Clint: Like jiggling the toilet handle.


Justin: Right.


Travis: Just like jiggling the toilet handle. And sometimes you poop on the crypt safe. Griffin can I roll to see if I figure out what’s going on?


Griffin: Yeah, what roll would that be?


Travis: Just in general. Um. I- I have a plus eight to figuring shit out.


Griffin: Mmkay.


[Justin laughing]


Travis: Uh, it was only a seven. So that’s only a 15 to figuring shit out.


Griffin: No, you have no i—


Travis: Agh.


Griffin: You have no idea. Use your brain, not your dice.


Travis: But…


Justin: So… I [unintelligible]


Travis: That’s not how D&D works.


Justin: I was actually thinking about that this past week. Like, if I was— ‘cause I’m- I’m cosplaying Taako as a— currently, as a—


[Griffin laughing]


Griffin: Are you— are you w- are you wearing a robe?


Justin: —currently cosplaying Taako as a stupid man, that may change, I- he’s kinda been going back and forth. But, does it c— Like, D&D, like, meta D&D, like, should I be able to figure— Like, is that fair if I figure something out? Because that doesn’t necessarily make sense in the world. Y’know what I’m saying? Like—


Griffin: I’ve always pictured Taako as more aloof than ignorant. He’s, so—


Travis: He knows more than he lets on.


Griffin: Yeah.


Justin: But you’re not answering the essential question here.


Griffin: If any- if any of you can crack this open don’t fucking sit on the answer. I’ve g- I’ve got—


Justin: What?


Griffin: —just if you- If you know the answer—


Justin: No, I don’t— I- I don’t think I can crack it open—


Clint: He’s trying to ask if Justin can figure it out—


Justin: If Justin figures— I’m not saying like—


Griffin: Yeah, if y— if Justin figures it out, let it rip, baby.


Justin: A single intelligence point orc. Like. Should he be able to figure— Like, does it make sense? If I were to figure something out, like, for that orc to be able to— to guess it in D&D? Like, does that make sense?


Griffin: Well, you’d have to make like, 19 wrong guesses first.


Justin: Shouldn’t I be rolling to see if I figure it out is what I’m saying.


Griffin: No.


Justin: Okay.


Griffin: We’re just talking— we’re just talking— this is just friends talking right now.


Taako: So here’s— this is interesting. You know this, this um… counters, sort of, what I was thinking because, y’know, Jenkins’s hands were missing, right, and I— what I was thinking was this— the rule of the safe is that you have the employee of the Rockport Express— have to have their hands on the safe for an hour. And his hands were missing. So I- I thought- what I had thought was, maybe someone had taken his hands so they could put them on the safe.


Griffin: Uhh—


Taako: But there i— are no hands on the safe.


Griffin: Angus looks up from his dusting for prints on the safe, and he looks up at you, and he says:


Angus: Yes, I had the same suspicion a while ago—


Travis: [Pretending to be Angus] Stupid!


[laughter]


Angus: —of, in fact a really long—


Travis: [still pretending to be Angus] Way to catch up!


Angus: —like basically from the start, I had that suspicion.


Merle: Yeah, yeah right.


Angus: The only issue is that it’s not just any employee, it has to be the engineer of the train. Who- who’s locked away in the engine car.


Magnus: How do you open the engine car?


Angus: You don’t. The engineer is the only one that can get in there.


Magnus: Unless you have the wand.


Taako: Unless you have the wand— Jenkins’s wand, right? Jenkins’s wand would let you go into any area. So, that would be the only way— if it was the pleasure chamber—


Angus: You’re throw- you’re throwing a lot of spaghetti at the wall—


[Clint laughing]


Angus: —I think there’s— I think there’s—


Taako: Oh, sorry, we’re trying to just like, piece this out, right?


Griffin: He said, uh:


Angus: I- I noticed something very suspicious about this room. And I’m wondering if you can help me confirm my suspicion. Can one of you—


Travis: Is this the point when the lightning flashes and when the lights come back on he’s got, like, an arrow in his heart?


[Laughing]


Travis: I know who the killer is! [Thunder noises]


Angus: Can one of you try and open the rear door? The caboose door? For the train, please.


Justin: I can do it.


Travis: I will go in the caboose.


Justin: I already do it. I’m doing it right now.


[laughter]


Griffin: Okay. Uh, you- you are trying to open up the very rear door of the train— which just leads out of the train.


Justin: I- I do it, it pops right open.


Griffin: [deadpan] It does not.


[Clint laughing]


Justin: I’m pretty sure I imagined it popping open.


Griffin: It does not, in fact it seems like it has been fused shut. Somehow.


Travis: I wanna roll to punch open the door.


Griffin: Okay.


Justin: Man, my whole day’s about the door now.


Travis: Okay, 19… So that’s a 23—


Griffin: Okay.


Travis: —versus the door.


Griffin: You punch this very, very, very sturdy iron door. And it does— nothing. It doesn’t even make a sound.


Travis: I do 1d4 plus push.


Griffin: You don’t do any damage!


[Clint laughing]


Travis: I d— I do— but it says I push it, and I wanna push it back and open.


Griffin: It pushes you back!


Travis: [Russian accent] In my country—


[Griffin and Clint laugh]


Clint: If it’s fused, then we can’t unlock it.


Travis: Well, thank you, Dad. Yes, but I wanted to punch a door. I got angry.


Clint: I know, I know, I know.


Justin: Uh, can I, uh, I wanna cast Detect Magic.


Griffin: Okay. You cast Detect Magic, and—


[Clint makes lightsaber noises]


Griffin: —your—


[Clint makes “dingle dingle, wooh-ooh” noises]


Griffin: —normally— normally when you cast this spell you can get sort of an idea of the magical items in the room. You can see sort of faint glowing traces around the magical items in the room. You cast this spell and your vision just goes white. Just goes blinding white, as if, like, everything is glowing. Everything around you is glowing.


Taako: Bad news compadres, this place is magic as hell.


Griffin: Uhh, you’re also picking up faint hints of— the only spell that can sort of detect is the spell Ghost Sound. Which sort of can produce a sound. If uh, to- to anybody who is nearby, the sound is of the caster’s choosing.


Justin: Can we- can we see anything out the windows of the train?


Griffin: There’s no windows.


Clint: I’d like to cast Locate Object.

Griffin: Okay. On what?


Clint: Uhh, the magic wand of the transporting closet.


Griffin: Okay, interesting.


Clint: And then, if it’s within a thousand feet of me— if it’s in motion, I’ll know the direction of the motion—


Griffin: Okay. This- the— rod that opens up the ports, or the pleasure chambers that you are trying to detect— you can’t pick it up. Meaning, it is not within one thousand feet of you.


Travis: Okay, I have a theory. This is Travis, not Magnus. I think the ghost sound that we’re hearing is the sound, like, to make it seem like the train is moving. And where we are— we’ve been transported to a fake location. That is not the actual crypt safe on the train.


Griffin: Angus says uh:


Angus: If that’s correct then this is a very unsafe room for us to be in. And I- I recommend that we move back to the dining car.


Magnus: I agree. Let’s do that.


Merle: So, Taako, usually, when we retreat, you lead the force.


Taako: I’m out!


[Laughter]


Merle: [imitating Taako] Peace.


Taako: Peace and carrots, you guys, I’m out.


Griffin: Uhh, the—


Taako: I’m already out. Look at me I’ve got— look at the back of me in the back of the car.


Travis: [singing] I’m already there!


[Clint laughing]


Griffin: The fun— The f—


Taako: —back at the— back at the other car. I’m gone.


Griffin: Uh, the f—


Taako: I’m gone-zo.


Griffin: The four of you are in the dining car now, Angus has summoned Jess and Graham to the dining car, to uh, to fucking crack this thing. Wide open. That’s what he says.


Angus: It’s time to fucking crack this thing wide open!


Justin: [drowned out by Clint] Crack like a nut—


Clint: When we went back— when we went back through that door, did we get a sense of nausea again?


Griffin: You did, yeah. As you- as you crossed through the threshold of the door, you very briefly feel dizzy and nauseous, but then as you spend more time on that side of the door, it subsides. And you’re fine.


Clint: And when we look back through the open door we see… the- the crypt? And everything else?


Griffin: Yep. It’s— you see the room you were just in.


Clint: Okay.


Griffin: Uh, so you move into the dining car. And Angus begins his speech. He actually turns to you guys and says:


Angus: Do you guys, uh, do you guys want to take a stab at this first? I’ve done this a lot and it’s really exhilarating and I’d love, uh, I’d love for one of you to share this, y’know, parlor scene experience. If uh, if we have any takers.


Magnus: Okay. So, let me… Think.


[Clint laughs]


Angus: I mean I’ve already gotten everybody sorta like— horny for the solution.


Magnus: Well, yes, thank you.


[Clint Laughs]


Angus: I’ve got—


Taako: Hey- peek and back off, that’s the secret, peek and back off.


Merle: So, obviously, somebody has used the transportation closet to take the magic wand somewhere. Because if it’s not what th—


Magnus: No, Somebody— No, somebody has used the wand.


Taako: No, no no no no. We were somewhere.


Magnus: Somebody has used the wand on the door to that… Crypt.


Merle: Ah.


Taako: We were somewhere else.


Magnus: So that we can’t actually access the actual room where the crypt is because they are using Jenkins’s hands on the crypt. But now we can’t access the actual crypt. Instead, when we walk through the door, we’re in a, like, kind of Ocean’s Eleven fake vault location.


Griffin: Angus says, uh:


Angus: That’s exactly right! It would confirm my suspicion. Uh, watch this!


Griffin: He walks into the uh, walks right back into the cargo car with the crypt safe. And there’s a small scrap of paper, a ticket stub, lying on the floor. And he crinkles it up into a ball and throws it at the door, and it seems to just sort of hit an invisible barrier at the door frame and fall to the ground. And he walks back through and says:


Angus: You can’t take an item from one of those pleasure rooms out of the pleasure room. So that room is almost certainly a fake. Good detective work, uh… Whatever your name is.


[Justin laughing]


Magnus: It’s- it’s Magnus, but that’s not important right now.


Angus: Let’s—


Magnus: So, whoever—


Merle: It usually is.


Griffin: Angus says, uh:


Angus: Let’s– Let’s talk about the murder itself. I wanna hear what you guys found about the method, of the murder. How– How this murder was executed, what– what was the cause of death for Jenkins?


Magnus: Um… Beheading?


Taako: Behanding?


Angus: Yeah that—


Merle: Beburning?


Angus: No, the behead- I mean, that’s a— that one’s pretty obvious but if you guys are having trouble, a thing can’t live without a head. You guys are like, keyed into that.


Magnus: Listen, we can’t get CSI out on it! We weren’t able to check lividity in time of death and shit. We saw that he didn’t have a head and there was blood everywhere. That’s the best we can do.


Angus: Uh, what— did you notice anything else strange about the scene of the crime?


Magnus: His hands were cut off and it was two different cuts.


Angus: Yes, exactly! What could’ve possibly— let’s- let’s identify, first of all, what could’ve possibly caused the killing blow, what could’ve possibly beheaded—


Magnus: It was Jess’s beheading axe.


Angus: Well…


Magnus: No! The crab thing.


Merle: You said it was completely clean?


Angus: It was a totally clean cut, which would, uh—


Merle: Is it possible that… that using that transportation magic, the body was transported differently from the head?


Angus: I think you’re close! It couldn’t have been the axe because the axe is soulbound to Jess, and Jess has an alibi because she was in the room with Graham.


Magnus: If the head—


Angus: S— But also a weapon of that size would’ve made a, uh, tremendous noise. And it would’ve alerted everybody on the train that the murder was taking place.


Magnus: If the head was in the pleasure room or in an alternate room, and then the magic was shut off, would that have done it?


Angus: I think that’s exactly it! And we have a clue that can confirm that. Remember when we first came to the scene of the crime there was blood on the outside of the door as well. Which makes me think that they turned up a port in that door, stuck poor Jenkins’s head through, and then shut off the port. And because the door would’ve still been open, that would explain the blood on the other side of the door.


Magnus: That’s why we can’t find the head.


Angus: That’s why you can’t find the head. There was no sign of a struggle, or sound of a struggle, in that room. Which makes it simple to deduce that the victim was asleep when they were killed. But why- why the hands? That’s the problem I keep coming back to.


Magnus: The hands are for the safe.


Angus: I think that’s entirely possible, although, again, Jenkins’s hands wouldn’t open the safe.


Merle: It w- it wasn’t Jenkins’s hands.


Angus: What are you saying?


[Travis gasps]


Merle: I’m s—


Magnus: J’accuse!


Taako: [in Justin voice] Oh my god.


Merle: It was the engineer.


Taako: What about- okay, but wait, I- I’m


Magnus: Jenkins is the assassin!


Taako: Jenkins… Killed the… Okay, listen. Okay, listen. I have a moment of lucidity and I don’t want to waste it. Jenkins…


[Travis laughs]


Taako: Jenkins killed the engineer. Took the head, so the body couldn’t be identified. Switched clothes with him, took the hands off the body, swapped the body with his clothes, and then opened the pleasure chamber into the engineer’s room so he’d kill in there. Right? So that’s how he got in the engineer’s room with the- with his wand. With his magical closet.


Merle: And then burned up the body to prevent further investigation.


Taako: Burned the body to prevent further investigation.


Angus: I think you’re close! I think that— that definitely he destroyed the body with the- with the fiery crab to keep us from figuring out that it wasn’t Jenkins. I think it— a much simpler solution—


Taako: By the way, classic Jenkins to use a crab instead of just using a spell slot.


Magnus: [crosstalk] Oh, classic. Classic Jenkins.


[Clint laughs]


Taako: Just burn one spell slot Jenkins!


[Magnus groans]


Magnus: C’mon!


Angus: [crosstalk] If we’re- If we’re 100 percent accurate on this, I think we need to be a lot more respectful of Jenkins’s magical potence.


[Clint laughs]


Magnus: [crosstalk] Nah, Jenkins is a real weiner.


Taako: [crosstalk] I would sooner die!


Angus: I think a much easier method for him to access the engine car is when he took a drink service in there!


Merle: Ohh! Drink service…


Taako: Ohh, well I liked mine better, but that’s fine.


Merle: I’m glad you’re contributing, Angus.


Taako: I’m also glad the engineer is drinking.


Travis: He’s still in there! ‘Cause when we talked to the engineer, the engineer answered.


Angus: The engineer answered through the audio device above the door which could have easily just been ghost trick, it could’ve been a Ghost Sound… it coulda been any number of spells.


Magnus: Cool, so where is Jenkins now?


Angus: This is a very curious, curious question: Remember when we were talking in my sleeper car?


Magnus: Yeah?


Angus: About how- and I revealed my true identity and you guys revealed your true identities?



Magnus: Yeah, we all grew closer as friends.


Griffin: And- and Jess says:


Jess: What are you talking about?


Griffin: Uh, and Angus says:


Angus: Oh, I’m the world’s greatest detective. Anyway— um, you remember, before the murder? Before any of this even happened, we were interrupted by the sound of somebody moving past the sleeper car towards the back of the car. If Jess and Graham were in the front of the car, the engineer was already dead, who—


Travis: We’ll call him Gingineer—


Angus: If the— he had a name. And it was… Hudson.


Clint: Hudson!


Justin: Hudson Hawk!


Angus: Remember all those great Hudson— remember all those great Hudson Hawk goofs?


[Justin snorting]


Justin: I’ll never forget them.


Angus: If Hudson was already killed, and Jess and Graham were in the front of the car, and the four of us were in my sleeper car, who was that moving towards the back of the car, and where are they?


Magnus: J-Jenk- is it Jenkins?


Angus: Yeah, I mean, yes.


[Clint laughs]


Magnus: So Jenkins is in the actual final car…


Taako: Jenkins is in the real… with the real crypt… in the real room.


Magnus: All right.


Travis: I point at Jess and I say:


Magnus: Summon that soulbound axe, we’re gonna hack our way through a wall.


Griffin: Uh, she says:


Jess: I uh, I’m not gonna break my axe trying to chop through a train.


Magnus: It’s a soulbound magical axe, you coward!


Jess: Yeah, but soulbound shit can like, break! And then I’ll have this shitty—


Magnus: [mocking] Ohh but soulbound shit can breaaak. I’m scared.


Jess: I’ll have this shitty broken axe soulbound to me. And I- the de-soulbinding procedure is really painful, so I’m not gonna go through that—


Justin: So wait, so he went in the engineer’s car for drink service, killed the engineer, used the wand to open up a port… from… The engineer’s car to… the safe room, right? To the crypt?


Travis: No, he used it to open up to the dining car thing so he could decapitate the body and do all that stuff.


Angus: What I’m finding curious—


Griffin: Angus says:


Angus: Is why he didn’t just kill the engineer in the engine car, cut off his hands in the engine car, and take his hands to the crypt? To the cargo car! Before—


Magnus: Because he had to alleviate suspicion from Jenkins.


Angus: I think that’s right, he had to— whenever this job is done, he doesn’t want anybody looking for him. And it’s a lot easier to escape and- and start a new life as a corpse than as a criminal.


Travis: Well it’s hard to start a new life as a corpse…


Angus: I think—  I have a theory—


Travis: [overlapping] ‘Cause you’re dead… you can’t get ar- you can’t get around, you can’t get out a lot—


Clint: It hadn’t stopped iZombie!


Justin: It’s true…


Angus: I have a theory, I have a theory for how the corpse found its way into the space between the passenger and the sleeper cars—


Magnus: Well somebody probably helped it. Cause it’s… it’s just a corpse. I was just saying, like when you’re a corpse, you can’t—


Merle: Let’s hear your theory, little man!


Angus: Does anybody else want to take a stab at it?


Taako: Oh, well we’ve— well, we’ve had such a good hit-rate so far!


[Clint chuckles]


Taako: Well, maybe the… [holding back laughter as he talks] the weird crab carried it? On its back?


Magnus: It was on the drink cart.


Angus: In the drink cart!


Griffin: Angus says:


Angus: Eureka! Bazi- Bazinga!


Magnus: Shut up! [laughing as he talks] You already knew the answer Angus, I don’t need-I don’t need your pity!


Angus: No! I’m just, I’m very proud of the three of you. You’ve been much more competent than anybody on earth would have ever thought.


Taako: Oh th- thank you!


Merle: Well, wait til you get to know us.


Taako: Yeah, we, we blew up a whole city once.


Merle: Sh-sh-shhh!!


Griffin: Uh, he uh, he walks over to the three of you and starts whispering:


Angus: What I don’t understand is, if Jenkins was also the killer of Leeman Kessler, how does he know about this item that I can’t hear and apparently nobody seems to know about except the three of you?


Magnus: Is he a member of the Bureau of Balance?


Angus: Is he a…? You just static-ed out right there.


Magnus: Oh, the [static noise], that’s not for you.


Angus: Okay.


Magnus: I’m- I’m asking like, my compatriots.


Taako: Well, um, could we, uh, could we use the [static noise]?


Magnus: Oh, oh! You know who we need?


Travis: Push a button.


Griffin: You’re on a train underground. There’s no response.


Travis: She can find us!


Griffin: [laughing] She’s uh, what’s she gonna— how she gonna do that?


Travis: Magic, Griffin! How do dragons exist? Just make it happen, DM!


Griffin: Uh, no, it does not happen. You guys are on your own. No deus ex machina.


Taako: He’s gotta be a member of the Bureau, it’s the only thing that makes sense.


Griffin: Uh, Angus says:


Angus: The really tricky part is how we’re gonna be able to get to Jenkins before we arrive in Neverwinter.


Griffin: He points at Graham.


Angus: Graham, how long do we have? Until we arrive?


Griffin: Graham pulls out a stopwatch from his uh, pocket, or a pocket watch, not a stopwatch—


Clint: His Juicy robe.


Griffin: He reaches into his Juicy robe and pulls out a pocket watch. Uh, and pops it open and looks at it and says:


        Graham: Uh, about 25 minutes!


Griffin: And uh, Angus says:


        Angus: We don’t have very long!


        Magnus: About 25 minutes, yeah, we- we just heard him.

        Angus: Okay…


Clint: I’d like to— may I cast Locate Object again?


Griffin: Yeah.


Clint: I cast Locate Object again.


Griffin: On the same rod?


Clint: Yep.


Griffin: Uh, this time you get a ping towards the back of the train, in the cargo car.


Travis: So it confirms!


Magnus: I have a question for boy detective.


Angus: Yeah, shoot!


Magnus: So the rule of “You can’t bring items back from the pleasure chamber.”


Angus: Yeah?


Magnus: What happens if we could successfully bring an item back?


Angus: You can’t!


Magnus: Would it dis- would it disrupt the magic?


Angus: It wouldn’t do anything to the magic. It just wouldn’t go through.


Magnus: How do we disrupt the magic?


Angus: Either by stopping the caster from- from channeling the spell or destroying the item that’s channeling the spell.


[Clint laughing evilly]


Clint: Killing! Ha ha ha ha!


Travis: Well, but we gotta get to him first.


Clint: Oh, yeah…


Angus: We do—


Taako: Wait wait w-w-w-wait! Are there windows on the crypt car?


Angus: There are no windows in the crypt car. There’s only the caboose door.


Taako: Son of a bitch.


Magnus: Is the wall punchable?


Taako: Are there windows on the cars next to it?


Angus: Uh, there’s a door before the dining car—


Magnus: Yes, but you were saying there’s a door at the back of the cargo car, and in the fake train, it’s fused shut.


Angus: Right, I suspect that’s because pleasure chambers can only have one entrance.


Magnus: So if we were able to get around to that door, from the outside of the car…


Taako: How sturdy are the walls of the train?


Angus: It’s a train… so… pretty sturdy!


Taako: Fairly sturdy, right?


Angus: I would say- I would say they’re about, in terms of sturdiness, they’re about, uh, train level, which is to say- [starts laughing]


Justin: [laughing] “Train level of sturdiness”—


Angus: Pretty sturdy.


Clint: In a locomotive sense—


Taako: Here’s what I’m— here’s what I’m— here’s what— let me put forth a theory I’m thinking about. What if we were to go back into the dining car, put Mag— I- I cast Levitate on Magnus, put him out a window, and he goes and knocks out the side of the cargo car?


Magnus: Or the door.


Merle: Or all the way to the back and come through—


Magnus: That’s what I’m saying.


Taako: Or go through the back of the caboose. Either way, if I levitate him and put him out the back of the train, then he could get around to the back or the side and look for another way in.


Angus: And then he’d have to… take down Jenkins on his own?


Magnus: Yes.


Angus: That seems pretty dangerous.


Taako: Well, no! All he has to do really is distract Jenkins long enough to bring down the port. We have the Far Stone, right? So we can use the stone to keep in contact. And as soon as he brings the port down, we can go in, and take Jenkins to Brown Town!


[Clint wheezes]


Magnus: Here’s what we’re gonna do—


Taako: And! And here’s the good new— The best news is: there’s no way he’s gonna use any spells on us! We know how finicky he is about conserving his slots.


Angus: Again, I have to stress this, I think his- his uh, incompetence may have been a ruse, and if you try to step to him, you may get got.


Taako: Hey, Angus, you’re the world’s smartest kid, have you ever heard of a man named Magic Brian?


Angus: I can’t— you just static-ed out for me.


Magnus: Exactly!


Taako: Exactly!


Magnus: Let me make- let me make one addendum to your plan, here, uh, Taako.


Taako: Okay!


Magnus: Cast Levitate specifically on my magic jumping boots.


Taako: Okay, great.


Magnus: So that way I’m not, like, at the mercy of being levitated and moving around.


Taako: Oh, I love it. It’s delectable, let’s do it!


Magnus: Magnus is so on board with this plan.


Griffin: Okay.


Travis: And that was Magnus speaking, that was not Travis speaking, that was Magnus speaking in third person.


Justin: You gotta get character voices.


Travis: [in a painfully poor Queen’s English bravado] Magnus is on board with this plan! Ha ha ha!


Justin: Just that, that aren’t, that don’t sound like death and sadness, mixed together in a pudding.


Travis: I think maybe Magnus has a… Spanish accent.


Griffin: Oh God, no he doesn’t!


Taako: Oh good!… Good! Excellent!


[Clint cackling]


Travis: And I- I think I’ve been doing it up to this point.


Griffin: Yeah and it’s been flawless.


Travis: Thank you!


Clint: I- before we do this plan—


Justin: Wait, okay, how many spell slots do you have, old bean?


Clint: What?!


Justin: Of your- of your, you’ve already burnt two on your Locate Object. Have you not- what about your Zones of Truth?


Clint: That was last adventure!


Justin: [overlapping with Griffin] No way! You’re not rested!


Griffin: No, I think you might be— you are fresh out of magic, my dude.


Justin: You’re magicked out! I’m sorry to have to be the DM for you but—


Travis: Plus, we’ve talked about this plan eight ways to Sunday. Let’s just do it!


Griffin: Let’s just get- get busy! Get busy living, or get busy— you will die. You’re gonna die.


{30:07-33:34 ad break}


Griffin: You are all gathered around a table, in the dining car, where Graham has unfurled a map of the train route. And he’s poin—


Travis: I thought you were going to say of the train- it’s just a straight line.


Griffin: Uh, and he has pointed out one part of the route. And he says, uh—


Clint: Shouldn’t there be some really cool music playing in the background? Like, like- like the Ocean’s Eleven “wa-wa-wa-wa”? [Continues to imitate Ocean’s Eleven theme]


Griffin: Yeah.


Justin: I’m sure. Griffin will add it in post, I’m sure.


Graham: There’s a brief gap between the Teeth, where we will have a—


Magnus: They call it the Letterman Gap.


Griffin: [laughing] He says, uh, yes.


Graham: It goes over, it’s a suspended rail line over a, uh, a lush basin. Over- called Letterman’s Basin. And at the speed that the train’s moving now, you’ll have about 90 seconds exposed—


Magnus: Okay!


Graham: —uh, where we— where we won’t be inside the mountain and that’s gonna be your best opportunity to get around. You’ll have to move around two cars. You’ll have to move around the dining car and get to the back of the cargo car if you want to pull this off. Are you sure you wanna go solo?


Clint: By any chance, is Magnus a Chinese acrobat?


Travis: Well, let me look, let me look at my character sheet. Oh, look! Says it right there, “Chinese Acrobat”! Sure enough!


[Clint laughing]


Griffin: A Chinese acrobat with a perfect Spanish accent.


Travis: Sure enough!


Griffin: He’s the great—


Travis: Alright, I’m ready to go! Vaya con dios, my friends.


Griffin: He’s the great American, uh, melting pot. Uh, uh, Graham hands you a… small bean.


[beat, everyone laughs]


Clint: Is it a magic bean?


Griffin: Are you surprised? Uh, Graham says:


Graham: When I heard you talking about your plan, I thought that maybe I could help out by alchemizing this delicious bean for you. Uh, if you pop—


Clint: Gulp!


Graham: If you pop this into your mouth, you’ll become extremely heavy. So uh, don’t use it if you’re on the side of the train, but if it looks like you’re uh, if something- something bad is about to happen, you’re about to go flying off the train, if you take this, you might be able to sorta drop yourself back onto it. Uh, but- but, just hold onto it.


Magnus: Okay.


Clint: Graham, master of foreshadowing.


Griffin: Uh, and he pops open the uh, the dining car door. And it’s pitch black, you’re still inside the mountain. Uh, Graham says:


[Clint starts making steam train noises]


Graham: We’ll be outside in 10 seconds. Uh, do you have anything you wanna say to your teammates? Any last words?


[Clint continues making train noises]


Magnus: Don’t touch my stuff.


Taako: I need to cast Levitate! Your shit isn’t levitated yet.


Merle: Yeah. And I need to cast jack-shit!


Taako: Yeah, that’s right, magic boy! Stop- stop zone-truthing everybody.


[Clint Laughs]


Magnus: Have a— have a little bit of faith in humanity!


Taako: Are you braced there, Mario? You ready to go?


[Griffin starts laughing]


Magnus: Is— Yes.


Taako: All right boy who can fly. AND you’re levitating!


[Griffin laughing]


Griffin: Okay I was waiting for a sound effect.


Taako: Yeah, there is no sound effect for levitate—


[Clint makes whistling foley work]


Justin: Dad’s just whistling. I don’t know.


Taako: There is no sound effect for levitation, everybody knows that, that’s the first thing you learn in Wizard School.


[Clint continues making different whistling noises for levitation]


Taako: He’s just doing weird 1940s foley work for like a tornado or something.


Griffin: Magnus you are, uh, suddenly, you- you have this weird sorta sensation, it takes you awhile to get used to staying upright with just your boots levitating and- and nothing else going. But you’re kinda, uh, Marty McFly in Back to the Future: Part II.


Travis: YES! Yes I am, Griffin!


Griffin: Just, just sort of hovering off the ground, just sort of waving your arms in the air to try and stay upright, and as you are figuring out this balancing act, the- the— all of you are blinded as the train exits the, uh, the mountain and you see a rickety sort of suspended rail bridge underneath you and then about 150 feet below, you see a lush forested area. And Graham says:


Graham: Go!


Travis: [overlapping] I get rea- I get real caught up by the view and spend about 2 minutes looking at it.


Griffin: Okay, you’re back inside the mountain—


Travis: —Oh no!


Justin: —Dun, dun, dunnnnn—


Travis: No, I go out the window!


Griffin: Okay, you go, uh— Well, it’s a door.


Travis: I go out the door.


Griffin: Okay, Graham clicks down a button on his pocket watch and yells:


Graham: Go!


Griffin: So what are you, what are you… what are you doing? Explain to me what’s— what you’re doing.


Travis: Uh, that’s such a good question! Can you describe to me what I’m looking at, first? This is in zero time. This is like bullet-time.


Griffin: Okay you’re in bullet-time. There’s— there’s two train cars that you have to get past: the dining car and the cargo car.


Travis: Mmhm.


Griffin: That’s— that’s what you are looking at. The uh, dining car has a few small windows on it that maybe you could use as hand grips? But if you are looking for me to tell you how you are about to pull off this incredible acrobatic feat, I— that’s not my job, I just created the situation.


Travis: Well, I have one risky idea.


Justin: That sounds good!


Travis: And that is: I don’t have to do anything but let go and then grab on again.


Clint: Ooh!


Travis: Cause the train’s moving!


Clint: Ohh!


Travis: It’s just a matter of timing. That if I can grab, y’know, the back of the train, then I don’t have to do shit. But that would require probably an immense dexterity roll.


Griffin: Yeah, and if you fail this… I’ll kill you.


[all laugh]


Griffin: [overlapping] You’ll suffer—


Clint: [overlapping] He will not hesitate.


Griffin: Listen, baby, risk— risk and reward! If you do it, it’ll be fucking rad! If you don’t do it, I— you’ll die, and you’ll have to start a new character!


Travis: I’m gonna — Can I retcon that I’ve tied my rope off to something in the car?


Griffin: What have you tied it off to?


Travis: I don’t know, one of the tables in the dining car?


Griffin: Mmkay.


Clint: Well, we could hold the other end of the rope—


Taako: [overlapping] Eh, well, that seems like a lotta work—


Travis: [overlapping] I don’t trust you fuckers!


 Taako: What if- what if I get bored?


[Clint laughs]


Travis: See!


Griffin: All right, so you’ve tied a rope to, what?


Travis: A— One of the tables in the dining car.


Griffin: Okay, and you’ve secured it around your waist?


Travis: No, I’m just holding onto it. Like I’m rappelling down the side of the train. I’m gonna slacken my grip a little bit to slide down the rope.


Griffin: Okay I see so the rope is like, uh—


Justin: —He’s just like sideways rappelling.


Griffin: Like a streamer coming off the train, uh, going behind it, and you are just slowly scooching your way down it.


Travis: Correct.


Griffin: Okay so you are sideways rappelling down the length of the train. Moving down past the dining car, the cargo car that you are now next to is… kind of almost perfectly smooth like a bullet. Uh—


Travis: Perfectly smooth like a butt.


Griffin: You are successfully navigating the length of, uh, of the train. And you make it past the cargo car to the caboose door. There’s like a small platform at the back of the door with a, y’know, a small step going up to it, off the back of the car. Um. And standing on that platform is a giant brute of a monster.


Travis: Excellent.


Griffin: Uh, skinless, made of meat. He is gargantuan, sorta the Hulk size


[Travis gasps]


Griffin: Very very stinky, small, left hand. Uh, and you stop to admire him as you are sideways, uh, rappelling down the side of the train—


Travis: Is it the— is that the conductor?


Griffin: Uhh, and as you say that, “Is that the conductor?” This, uh, brutish monster rears back, and punches you in the sternum.


Travis: Okay. Ow.


[rolling dice]


Griffin: He rolls a 21.


Travis: Well, yeah, then!


Clint: [laughing nervously] This is not gonna be good…


Travis: No it’s alright, yo.


Griffin: And he hits you for 16 points of damage.


Travis: Wow!


Griffin: And as he clocks you, uh, you need to roll a dexterity saving throw to make sure you don’t let go of the rope.


Travis: Well I don’t.


Clint: Would that—


Travis: Just trust me, I don’t.


Clint: Wouldn’t that be a strength roll?


Travis: That is… I rolled a 19.


Griffin: A 19, okay. So you do manage to get, uh, to stay holding onto the rope, but this punch sort of just like, like you’re on a tire swing—


Travis: That’s great! Have we—


Griffin: Pushes you backwards uh, and—


Travis: Let me ask you this, Griffy.


Griffin: Yes?


Travis: How far are we away from re-entering the tunnel?


Griffin: Uh, you can yell to Graham to try to get an estimate—


Travis: I mean, I can’t see it?


Griffin: Uh, you, you’re about— actually, as you get swung away from the train, you see that you are about one third of the way there.


Travis: Okay so like second-wise could you estimate?


Griffin: Uh, 60 seconds.


Travis: Cool. Okay, well, I— so now I’m just kinda like flying off the train, right?


Griffin: Uh, yeah, you are, you are no longer— before, the rope was sorta flush with the train’s wall and you had sorta perfect control on it as you were rappelling down. Now you are just sort of holding on for dear life as this rope sort of swings around. Uh, you are no longer like level with the train, you’re like a bit above it now?


Travis: Perfect.


Griffin: But yeah.


Travis: I’m going to wait 59 seconds.


Griffin: Okay…


Travis: Listen, ‘cause this is gonna be physics and it’s awesome. As we go into the tunnel and the rope starts to compress back against the train, just before it gets to me, I take the bean and basically become a wrecking ball and smash into the brute at the back of the train.


[Justin cackling, Clint snorting]


Travis: Listen! Don’t give me the bean if you don’t want me to use the bean!


Griffin: Okay. So you are holding onto the rope with one hand?


Travis: Mmhm.


Griffin: So you are flying above the train. You are waiting. Uh, you have waited 59 seconds, the train has started to move back into the tunnel [rolls dice]. As the dining car moves into the train, it begins to pull the rope back in towards the train, and you pop this heaviness bean in your mouth?


Travis: Mmhm.


Griffin: Okay, and from your position above the train, you get super duper heavy and begin to fall directly behind the train, the rope catches on the roof and… you are going to make a really cool acrobatics check…


Travis: Yes I am!


Griffin: If you’re going to do this thing.


Travis: Yes!


Griffin: Because I shoulda just killed you on the side of a tunnel.


[Clint cackling]


Travis: Sweet. Seventeen… that’s a 19.


Griffin: Nineteen. Okay, you come down on this thing hard. You manage to get him with, like, your curled up knees, sorta Tony Jaa style, which hits him for, we’ll say… You came in pretty hard and you’re really heavy so we’ll say, uh, 2d8 damage.


Travis: That’s this one… That’s 14.


Griffin: Uh, you knock this- this meat monster, with the hand of the engineer, through the door, you see him collide with Jenkins, who is bent over on the floor digging through items that he has apparently pulled off of the crypt safe, which is uh— pulled out of the crypt safe, I should say. Uh, which has been popped open and there you see another meat monster with another very small hand, with his hand firmly planted on the crypt safe.


Travis: Can I see Treesplitter?


Griffin: Uh, Railsplitter.


Travis: Railsplitter.


Griffin: Uh—


Travis: I call him Treesplitter. It’s my- it’s my pet name for him.


Griffin: You do. You see it on the ground behind, uh, Jenkins. On the- the- the ground close to the front door. And through that front door you can actually see your party, uh, in the dining car. Yeah, you knock this meat monster back into Jenkins, who is on the ground. He’s holding a shitty metallic compass in his hand and sorta poring over all of the items on the ground. When this meat monster collides with him, he falls over, the silver rod he was using to channel the ports flies out of his grip, and Merle and Taako you can see this scene now through the door of the cargo car. He looks up at you with a start, and he goes:


Jenkins: What the fuck?


Griffin: And we’re gonna get into combat, but I’m going to give you a surprise round on him since this was all very, very surprising.


Travis: I wanna spit out the bean and jump across the room.


Griffin: [half laughing] Okay. Uh, you—


Travis: That way I can be on the same side as my party and Railsplitter.


Griffin: Okay. You spit out the bean, uh, making you float again, uh, with your magic jumping boots, uh, position yourself against a wall and just, like, sort of—


Travis: Just to be clear, like I spit it back in my hand, I didn’t just like, spit it out—


Griffin: Yeah ‘cause maybe you wanna- maybe you wanna be heavy again. At some point.


Travis: Yeah.


Griffin: Uh, you just sort of missile launch yourself across the room, and you’re going to… punch Jenkins? Or what are you doing?


Travis: [laughing as he speaks] No! I just wanna- can I jump across the room, punch him— or just give him the finger as I fly by.


Griffin: Okay, you fly by— as you float effortlessly through the room over the meat monster, you flip him the bird, and now you’re on the other end of the room, and that’s gonna do it for your surprise round. We need to roll initiative.


Justin: Five.


Travis: I rolled a nine.


Clint: Thirteen.


Travis: That’s a good spread, guys. Now Griffin, my question is: Are Jess and Graham and Angus backing us up, and will you be playing three NPCs versus three NPCs?


[Justin quietly laughing]


Griffin: Depends on how quickly you guys can all kill ‘em.


Travis: Okay.


Griffin: Uh, first in the order are the two meat monsters.


Travis: Cool.


Justin: Great.


Griffin: And the first one is the one that you kneed in the chest, who stands up and trudges his way over to where—


Travis: Now, isn’t standing up a move action, Griffin?


Griffin: No. It takes half your— it takes half your move.


Travis: Oh.


Griffin: Don’t tell- don’t tell me the rules of Dungeons and Dragons, please!


[Justin snorts]


Griffin: He stands up and trudges over to you, and uses his big fist, not his little stinky fist.


Travis: Mm.


Griffin: Uh, to just sort of overhead hammerstrike you. That’s a 24.


Travis: Jesus! Yeah, no, that’s a hit. That’s a solid hit.


Griffin: And that is 13 points of damage.


Travis: Phew. All right, I’m in a bad way.


Griffin: And the other one takes his tiny hand off of the crypt safe and trudges towards you, and comes at you with sort of a chop from the side. Rolls a 19.


Travis: I mean, yeah, that hits.


Griffin: Uh, that’s 11 damage.


[Justin stifles bewildered laughter]


Travis: Okay. I’m down to one.


Griffin: Okay! That’s it for the meat monsters. Uh, next in the order is… Merle?


Clint: Okay, so if he has one I cannot cast Spare the Dying that’s a cantrip, well, then, uh, I’m gonna use my warhammer on the—


Griffin: You, okay, so many things. You don’t have the warhammer. You’re not in the room!


Clint: Yup. You’re right!


[Griffin laughs, after a second, Justin does too]


Clint: I will move forward into the car.


Griffin: Okay.


Clint: And cast Sacred Flame on the wounded meat monster.


Griffin: Okay, uh… yeah. Go for it. Oh, I have to roll. Uh, he rolled an 11 against your spell casting modifier which is… higher than that.


Clint: One d8 radiant damage.


Griffin: Okay!


Travis: Aw, man, you know I really wish that… when I was getting punched a bunch, I remembered that I had a bunch of skills I could use to avoid taking damage! Oh, maybe next time!


Clint: Punched a bunch! I like “punched a bunch”! Uh, okay so that’s five.


Griffin: Okay.


Clint: Plus one for the holy symbol right? For the Extreme Teen Bible?


Griffin: Uh, yes. And you’re gonna do bonus damage ‘cause these things are undead! [reading from D&D manual] “Vulnerability, uh, to a damage type means damage of that type is doubled against it.” So you blast this thing with radiant light.


Justin: What, what does that even mean?


Griffin: Uh, you’ve destroyed it.


Justin: Okay good yeah, that’s, good, excellent.


Griffin: Uh, next—


Clint: Yay me! Win!


Griffin: Uh, next in the order is… Magnus.


Travis: Great.


Griffin: You are standing in this room, uh, you got one meat monster left, Jenkins has stood up and rolled poorly on his initiative so he hasn’t taken any actions. He says:


Jenkins: [Griffin struggling through different voices; they are all low, vaguely British drawls] Uh, how, how, How did you— how [clears throat]


Griffin: It’s gonna take me a while to get back into Jenkins! I was so excited when he died that I wouldn’t have to do it anymore.


[Travis laughs]


Clint: And then he proved to be so popular!


Griffin: I know.


Jenkins: How could you— how could you have possibly seen through my— my perfect crime?


Magnus: Because you’re not a very good wizard.


Jenkins: I’m the best wizard any—


Magnus: You’re a weiner.


Jenkins: You— you— I hate you all so—


[Taako snorting]


Magnus: [overlapping] You’re a weiner, Jenkins!


Jenkins: I hate you all—


Magnus: [overlapping] More like “Wankins.”


Jenkins: I hate you all so much.


Magnus: I’m gonna call you Wankins from now on.


Jenkins: My name is not Wankins.



[Travis busts up laughing]


Merle: Dinkins! How about Dinkins?


Magnus: Dinkins is pretty good! What about Jerkins?


Merle: [tauntingly] Dinkins!


Magnus: I like Jerkins!


Jenkins: I’m going to kill everyone on this train, and then I’m going to bring you all back to life again, and then I’m going to kill you again.


Magnus: More like Junkins.


Jenkins: This is—


Merle: That would take another spell slot!


[Justin giggles]


Griffin: Um, next in the order is Magnus.


Travis: I wanna pick up Railsplitter. How do I do that?


Griffin: You… do it.


Travis: Okay. I pick up Railsplitter.


Clint: But bend from the knees! Bend from the knees, not from the waist!


Travis: And I wanna pop the bean back in my mouth.


Griffin: Okay, you pop the bean back in your mouth, you’re very heavy.


Travis: How close am I to the, um, to the meat monster?


Griffin: He’s right- he’s right up on you, he just punched you.


Travis: Great. I want to swing my axe at his head two-handed.


Griffin: Okay.


Travis: That is… 22? Twenty-two.


Griffin: Okay.


Travis: And then—


Griffin: Yes, sufficient.


Travis: One d10 plus six. This is a d10… That is a 10. Sixteen damage.


Griffin: Okay, woof. He is bloodied.


Travis: And now… I want to step backwards… [he starts laughing]


Griffin: Uh…


Clint: But you’re… heavy…


Griffin: If you do that, you’re gonna take an opportunity attack.


Travis: Well, I don’t want that…


Griffin: No, who would! It’s a big meat monster!


Travis: But if I don’t get away from him, I’ll die! No, I’ll still step back.


Griffin: Mmkay.


Travis: It’s important to me to get away from him, I have one point of damage.


Griffin: Okay you’re gonna take an opportunity attack, are you, are you ready for the opportunity attack?


Travis: Let me brace myself. [Groans through clenched teeth]


Griffin: Okay. Uh, 18.


Travis: Aww, man! It just hits.


Griffin: Okay! It’s gonna be more than one.


Travis: Well!


Griffin: That’s a- that’s a guaran-goddamn-tee.


Taako: I think the real takeaway here is thi— this step back has betrayed a real lack of faith in my ability to kill that monster.


Griffin: Uh, that’s 10 points of damage.


Justin: Woof.


Travis: Woah. Okay, hold on. Hold on.


[Griffin laughing]


Merle: I guess when you fly solo that happens sometimes…


Taako: Yeah, maybe shoulda let your boy Taakooo…


Merle: Yeah, maybe how about it, genius, we’re not all that bad!


Magnus: Yeah, that’s great coming from a cleric who expended all of his spell slots to heal me doing weird shit earlier.


Merle: Ohh, well, you’re the dead guy.


Griffin: Here’s a Zone of Truth: You’re dead.


Travis: So I’m going to use Parry, use reaction dice, to reduce damage by the dice plus my dexterity.


Griffin: Okay.


Travis: That is eight, plus my dexterity is, 10.


Griffin: Your dexterity is 10?!


Travis: No, my dexterity is two.


Griffin: Oh!


Travis: But plus my dexterity, is 10.


Griffin: Okay, so you, do you get a counter attack?


Travis: No, not with Parry, I only get that with Riposte when it’s missed.


Griffin: Okay, he brings his meaty fist down on you, and you effortlessly, like the water, move around it. And now you can move!


Travis: Okay, I’m gonna- I’m gonna get back with the rest of my party.


Griffin: Okay! You’re back there! Uh, next in the order is Taako.


Justin: I’m gonna cast Ray of Frost, I know that’s boring, on the um, on the monster that’s already taken some damage.


Griffin: Okay. You’re, you’re still outside of the train, in the space between cars.


Justin: Okay, well I came, I came within 30 feet of…


Griffin: Okay, he was right by the door, so you can, you can shoot ‘em through it.


Justin: Perfect. I’ll just cast through it. Uh… 22.


Griffin: Uh, yeah, that’s a hit.


Travis: Nice!


Justin: ‘Kay. And then it does… 6 damage.


Griffin: Okay cool, he is very very bad off. Uh, next in the order is Jenkins, who surveys the scene. Uh, he- he drops his, this compass he was using and his silvery port rod thing. And he leverages his wand and points it at the meat monster. And he says:


Jenkins: Okay, I see I’m outnumbered and out-axed. I am a big enough man to admit defeat, so here is the deal I will make everybody on this train.


Griffin: He says:


Jenkins: This meat monster is equipped with one of Hudson’s hands. I grew this monster out of Hudson’s hand. And if he is destroyed, like the other one you just killed, then the hand will be lost, and we will have no way of getting back into the engine car to slow down the train before it arrives in Neverwinter in…


Griffin: He uh, he looks at his- his pocket watch. Apparently everybody has those. He says:


Jenkins: In about 10 minutes. So. Everybody is going to back off, and shut the door to this car, leave me to find my treasure, and we’ll- we’ll be able to stop this train in time! What do you say?


Travis: Magnus turns to Taako and says:


Magnus: Hey, do you think you could figure out that port wand thing?


Taako: Absolutely. [Under his breath] not. Probably.


Magnus: Okay cool!


Taako: Probably…


Magnus: Good enough for me! We don’t need a hand.


Griffin: Jenk— Jenkins says:


Jenkins: No takers, huh?


Taako: No thanks, uh Papa.


Magnus: Go fuck yourself, Wankins.


Taako: Go f— yeah, wh- what he said! But like, imagine me saying it too, but angrier!


Magnus: Like, simultaneously, like a Greek chorus!


Griffin: He says:


Jenkins: Well, okay!


Griffin: And he points his wand at the meat monster and a bolt of fiery flame shoots out of it. And he rolled a two. And uh, misses the meat monster by a country mile!


[Travis laughs]


Taako: The worst!


Griffin: And with that, it’s back to the top of the order! [laughing] Uh, which is, the meat monster, which trudges over to Jenkins, picks him up by the throat, and throws him off the back of the open caboose door. And Jenkins… rolls an eight on his dexterity saving throw. And you don’t see Jenkins anymore, he is gone, he has been deposited out of the back of the train. You hear him go:


Jenkins: Smell ya later…


Clint: I’ll uh, then I guess I’ll cast Sacred Flame again at the meat monster.


Griffin: Okay!


Justin: Wh- hold on. Wait a minute! Did we just lose the wand?


Griffin: No. He set it down.


Justin: Okay. All right.


Griffin: Uh, the meat monster rolls a 8. Which is not good enough.


Justin: Yeah.


Clint: Six.


Griffin: Six so that’s 12 damage. Uh, he is… reduced to ash as well. And he floats out the back of the open car door.


Travis: Finally free to go to heaven.


Griffin: Well, no, meat monsters don’t go to heaven.


Travis: Wow, Griffin!


Clint: All meat monsters go to heaven.


Justin: [simultaneously] All meat mon— that’s my favorite Don Bluth movie.


Clint: Mmhm, yeah.


Justin: All Meat Monsters Go to Heaven.


Clint: And Burt Reynolds.


Travis: And Don Bluth is my favorite Arrested Development character


Griffin: Uh, let’s stop there.


Travis: Ahahaha! On that solid goof!

Griffin: Previously on The Adventure Zone:


Griffin: He, he takes this rod, he points it at the door frame and it opens up to… a… greenhouse. It’s, it’s the most gorgeous collection of plants that any of you have ever seen.


Jenkins: Remember, don’t leave anything behind, and you cannot take anything with you.


Magnus: Except memories.


Taako: Jenkins killed the engineer… switched clothes with him…


Merle: And then burned up the body to prevent further investigation.


Taako: [Crosstalk] Burned the body to prevent further investigation.


Griffin: Jenkins is holding a shitty metallic compass in his hand and sort of poring over all of the items on the ground.


Jenkins: This meat monster, if he is destroyed, like the other one you just killed, then the hand will be lost and we will have no way of getting back into the engine car to slow down the train before it arrives in Neverwinter.


Travis: Magnus turns to Taako and says:


Magnus: Hey, do you think you could figure out that port wand thing?



Taako: Absolutely (not). Probably.


Magnus: Okay cool.


Taako: Probably…


Griffin: The meat monster trudges over to Jenkins and throws him off the, out of the open caboose door.


Jenkins: Smell ya laterrrrrrrrr…!


Announcer: If our heroes can’t stop this runaway train then I’m gonna have to find a new podcast to introduce! Is Serial hiring? It’s the Adventure Zone!


[Theme music: Déjà Vu by Mort Garson]


{1:54}


Griffin: Jess and Angus and Graham all barge into the cargo car where you have just destroyed these meat monsters and one of the meat monsters just destroyed Jenkins and Jess yells:


Jess: Let’s get busy!


Griffin: And her axe appears in her hand.


Justin: So she just appeared in the car?


Griffin: Yeah, they all came into the car.


Taako: And that’s the— my entire plan for how we stop the train.


[Clint laughs]


Taako: They missed it. I guess they missed it, but it’s really good.


Angus: Can you uh, can you start over from the beginning?


Griffin: Angus says.


Taako: [Groan of reluctance] Hachi-machi.


Clint: Well, why don’t you tell us your plan and how it competes with his.


Taako: [Crosstalk] We’ll compare. Contrast and compare. They’re bored, they don’t wanna hear my plan again.


Griffin: Angus leans over to you Taako and says:


Angus: [whispering] I think we should probably find that item you guys were looking for first. Before anybody else can get their hands on it.


Magnus: Okay.


Angus: That was just, not for you. That was Taako, that was in Taako’s ear.


Taako: Okay.


Angus: But I guess I’ll— I’ll whisper to you too. We should find the item…


Justin: I bend down and pick up the compass that he was using.


Griffin: Okay.


Justin: And I will cast an Arcane Knowledge check to see how much I know about the… the thing.


Griffin: Okay.


Justin: Five. Fourteen.


Griffin: Okay. Using your Arcane Knowledge you pick up that this is not telling you sort of which direction you’re facing. It’s not— it is not a traditional compass. As you sort of move around with it around the room though, the needle is moving. And it almost appears to be like a sort of a dowsing rod, if you will.


Justin: Right. Is there any— do I get anything from the Arcane Knowledge check that I couldn’t have put together with context clues?


[Travis laughs]


Justin: By my own damn self?


Griffin: No, you— you don’t. And Angus says:


Angus: What is that? What have you got there?


Taako: I think it’s a compass but not pointing motion. I thought I’d know more about it, but I don’t. And I… it’s trying… [crosstalk]


Angus: What is it pointing…


Travis: And on the back it’s carved in “Captain Jack Sparrow.”


Angus: What is it pointing towards?


Taako: It’s a dowsing thing.


Angus: A dowsing rod. Interesting. What if, what if the killer was… the killer’s victims were all extremely wealthy. What if that dowsing rod was able to point at like the most valuable thing? It would explain how we could find your object that nobody knew about. Because if it’s as powerful as you say I imagine it’s incredibly valuable.


Taako: Well that’s a good point.


Clint: [higher pitched voice] Why don’t we examine the stuff in the… [normal voice] I almost did Taako! Why don’t we examine the stuff in the crypt safe?


Travis and Justin: Yeah like, what do we see?


Griffin: You see everybody’s weapons that have been pulled out and placed on the floor. Merle you can collect your warhammer if you want.


Clint: Thanks.


Griffin: And your shield if you want it.


Travis: Yay!


Justin: [crosstalk] Say that you’re doing it.


Griffin: I can just assume that you have re-equipped yourself with all of the objects in the room.


Travis: Okay.


Griffin: And then there’s some other sort of valuables laying around. There’s a set of silverware, a fine silverware that has been splayed open, and some of the forks and knives are sort of laying all around the room. There is a briefcase that is locked up, laying on the floor. There’s just sort of a bunch of valuable debris laying all around. There’s a… it’s a pretty big pile. It is all the valuable cargo that everybody in the car was bringing with them. And you have this compass that seems to be sort of reacting to something in the room.


Clint: Could we not walk around the room? And be able to use that to triangulate ‘cause if it keeps pointing to that most valuable item, and we walk around the room eventually won’t it lead us right to the item?


Taako: Yeah, that sounds like good thinking!


Justin: And I toss him the compass.


Griffin: Okay. You toss Merle the compass and—


Travis: Meanwhile I’m keeping an eye on Jess and Ang… and Graham and just kinda doing like a “Nothing to see here folks, nothing to see. Uh, move it on back, move it on back.”


Clint: “Keep moving.”


Travis: “Nothing to see here.”


Griffin: Okay yeah, Merle, the compass seems to be pointing you at something on the left side of the cargo car. There’s a few items scattered around there. And as you move around it seems to be pointing to a certain location, and as you look down at basically where the compass zeroes out, it’s sort of spinning, you are standing directly over a small monocle with a silvery trim around it and a long silver chain.


Clint: ‘Cause we do not know exactly what it is we were sent to recover.


Travis: Correct.


Taako: Also be cautious…


Justin: I no— I notice him doing it.


Taako: Be careful because you remember the thrall that the… the previous item cast. I—


Merle: And the big-ass fire!


Taako: Yeah.


Merle: Yeah.


Taako: This conversation probably sounds crazy to the people in the train…


Merle: Probably.


Taako: And don’t forget about the [static].


Jess: What is going on over there?!


Clint: We are rewarding faithful listeners!


Magnus: Nothing to see here folks, nothing to see. Move it along now, move it along.


Griffin: So yeah you firmly believe that this monocle is, at the very least the most valuable item in the room.


Travis: Is it powerful?


Taako: I guess I should be the one to try to pick it up, right? ‘Cause I resisted the thrall before.


Travis: Yeah, sure. Sounds… solid.



Clint: Are our bracers of no use? In this instant?


Taako: Yeah, can’t we like scan it or shoot a laser out of them or something?


Griffin: Ther— I don’t know how to tell you guys this.


Travis: Did we bring any kind of like, centrifuge?


Griffin: These bracers are not fucking tricorders. You’re not gonna set these motherfuckers to stun. They have one thing that they do.


[laughter]


Travis: Remind me what that one thing is. Just—


Griffin: It summons the transport.


Travis: Cool.


Griffin: If you do that now, you’re just gonna waste a glass ball. It’s gonna crash into a mountain. Because you’re in a mountain.


Travis: Okay. So when I— when I poked it earlier, I wasted a glass ball.


Griffin: No, you— you didn’t get any signal.


Travis: Okay. Well, you know you gotta check. You gotta check your carrier at that point.


[Clint laughter]


Clint: No bars.


Griffin: Yeah, no— no bars.


Justin: Okay, I start reaching my hand towards it, but not touching. But start reaching my hand towards it to see if I’m getting any vibes.


Griffin: Okay, as you begin to reach your hand towards it you get a vibe. The monocle starts to sort of shake and rattle on the floor and you hear a voice in your mind saying, “Hey… Hey buddy. Heyyy buddy.”


Travis: [sleazy voice] “You wanna see some DVD movies?”


Voice: Buddy. Hey buddy. Put me on.


Travis: “I got all the latest releases.”


Voice: I’ve got all the… I’ve got— I’ve got Jack and Jill 2 starring Adam Sandler.


Justin: Okay.


Voice: It’s too hot for TV. Hey buddy, put me on I can make… anything, anything you can imagine turn real. Hey buddy, come on.


Justin: Okay, I pick up the monocle…


Voice: Oh yeah buddy, put me on. Put me on.


Justin: With— with the handle of my umbrella.


[Clint laughter]


Griffin: Okay. You scoop it up with the handle of your umbrella. You’re still gonna make a will saving throw but that’s such a good idea I’ll give you advantage on it. So make a wisdom saving throw. And you’re gonna contest this thing’s wisdom.


Justin: Natural Twe— natural 20.


Clint: Natural 20.


Griffin: That’s a three… Yeah you..


[Laughter]


Griffin: You beat the shit out of the thrall. Okay. You have resisted the thrall of this monocle and you hear him go:


Voice: Aw, come on. Aw, come on, buddy. Aw.


Justin: Come on.


Voice: Buddy come on, come on buddy. Buddy, I can— anything in the world. Anything. Anything, what do you want? Just imagine it and I can make it real, buddy.


Taako: Joke’s on you. I can’t think very good.


[laughter]


Clint: He has no imagination.


Taako: No imagination to tempt, my friend.


Griffin: Okay. You have beaten the thrall of this thing. What are you gonna do with it?


Justin: Um, I’m gonna throw it into my backpack. My satchel.


Griffin: Okay.


Travis: [laughter] Maybe wrap it up in something first.


Griffin: No, toss it in loose into your… Toss this incredibly valuable, powerful item into your fucking JanSport.



[laughter]


Griffin: Put it in— put it in the headphones chamber!


Justin: No I can’t, I can’t, um… I don’t wanna touch it so like…


Griffin: Yeah that makes sense. Okay so you lower the thing into— the monocle into your bag and sort of un-scoop it from your umbrella handle and  close it up. And you have contained another Relic. Something weird—


Travis: [crosstalk] Kudos all around.


Griffin: Something weird happens. You’re— As you were holding your umbrella. It also seems to, almost like a dowsing rod, point towards the back of the chamber right near the caboose door. And there you see Jenkins’s wand. Not the port rod, but his wand he used for his magics. And the umbrella starts to almost like pull you—


Justin: Oh yeah.


Griffin: —pull you towards it…


Justin: I eat the wand with my— the Umbra Staff.


Griffin: Yeah, the Umbra Staff deploys, it opens up like an umbrella and then it sort of turns inside out like an umbrella in the rain— in the wind. And the wand flies into the mouth, basically of your umbrella, which rattles and and then sort of opens and closes like it’s chewing it up and then when it closes again, the— the wand is gone and you look down and your umbrella actually has a marking on the handle— like a sigil that is actually in the shape of an umbrella on it. So your Umbra Staff just ate the wand of this wizard that you have bested.


Justin: Great.


Travis: And what happens to my Railsplitter, Griffin? Something magical like that?


Griffin: Your Railsplitter… disintegrates.


Travis: [laughter] Oh no!


Taako: No, it turned to ash.


Griffin: Angus says:


Angus: I’m— I’m really glad that everything’s working out for you. A wand got eaten by another staff, it was really cool and you did a thing with a monocle and all that’s great.


Travis: We solved this one guys.


Clint: But we’re still hurtling towards our death.


Angus: But— but Graham, what are we, what are we looking at now?


Griffin: And Graham says… Graham looks at his pocket watch and he says:


Graham: We’ve got about… we’ve got about uh… —nope, that’s— we’ve got about uh, seven minutes before we arrive at Neverwinter and if we don’t start slowing down now it’s gonna be real bad.


Justin: No, he had more of, like, a hippie—


Griffin: Yeah, you’re right you’re right you’re right, hold on.


Graham: Uh… We’ve got about seven minutes before we arrive in Neverwinter. If we don’t slow down now, it’s gonna be really bad.


Clint: That’s better. And I think you have better motivation there too, that was good.


Justin: Yeah, I felt the energy from that.


Travis: Yeah, that was good. Let’s do one more, just in case, just to cover—


Griffin: I can’t, I have no voice, please, let’s just keep playing the game.


[Clint laughs]


Taako: Okay so—


Clint: We gotta find the— yeah.


Taako: Give—


Justin: I pick up the port wand.


Griffin: Okay.


Justin: And I, let’s do, let’s do an arcane check on— well. I feel like I’ve already done an arcane check on the wand. Like I know everything I’m gonna know about the wand, I’m not gonna learn anything else from an arcane check, right?


Griffin: Yeah! Certainly, certainly not in the next seven minutes.


Justin: Okay. I—


Travis: Is there a button on it?


Justin: I focus on… the engineer’s room.


Griffin: Okay.


Justin: And point it— well hold on.



Taako: Everybody out!


Griffin: Okay.


Justin: And I, as people are leaving I kind of hang back and I’m like:



Taako: Okay, now everybody face the forward of the train and really focus on the engineer, what the engineer’s room looks like.


Griffin: Are you using everybody else’s… imagination?


Taako: Yeah I need everybody to go into the adjacent car, and just, turn towards the engineer’s car and really focus on it. Okay?


Clint: And then clap if you believe in fairies.


Justin: Alright, has everybody, has everybody has everybody done that?


Griffin: Yep! Everybody moves in there. So you’ve moved everybody into the dining car. You’re still in the cargo car?


Taako: Right, and then everybody face towards the front of the train and really focus on it, okay?


Travis: Okay.


Justin: Okay.


[focusing sounds, humming]


Justin: Now, while they’re doing that I scoop the remaining valuables into my bag.


[Griffin whooping laughter and Clint cackling]


Griffin: Okay, you pick up a golden tiara, you pick up the silverware set, you pick up the briefcase.


Justin: Nice! Nice! Nice!


Griffin: Okay, and—


Taako: Okay, keep focusing! You’re doing great.


[Laughter]


Justin: I leave and I go into the adjacent car with them. I focus on the engineer’s room and I… cast the transportational magic on the door to the— the cargo caboose.


Griffin: [crosstalk] Back to the cargo car? Yeah. Okay. You’re gonna have to make some sort of check.


Justin: Yeah, right.


Clint: I didn’t think you’d be able to pull that one off.


Justin: Didn’t think so. Considering I don’t even know the word for what I’m doing—


Clint: Expelliarmus!


Travis: “And I do it.”


Justin: Do a magic. I just did a magic there.


Travis: And let me check my sheet here. Yeah, it says I have a plus five “just doing it.”


[Clint laughs]


Griffin: Let’s just do a spellcasting modifier check, you’re not casting a spell, you are sort of channeling the spell that is imbued in this rod, which explains how you’re like capable of doing it, but yeah why don’t you go ahead and roll just a basic intellect check.


Justin: Oh an intellect, okay. Two. Okay my first try fizzles.


Griffin: Yeah. No it— it doesn’t fizzle, actually. You see a figure start to take shape through the cargo car door. And you can see into the engineer’s car, but it kind of looks like a cartoon. Like, everything is like really squiggly and—


Clint: Oh, like the Ah-Ha video!


Justin: Yeah like the Ah-Ha video.


Griffin: Yeah, you have basically created the Ah-Ha video but it’s in the engineer’s car.


Clint: [Singing] Take….on….me!

=

{15:54}


Justin: Okay, I try— I try again.


Griffin: Okay.


Taako: Let me take another pass at this, this time for sure.


Griffin: Okay, uh, but af— before you cast your second spell, through the windows of the dining car light starts to pour in, as you have moved out of another mountain, Graham says:



Graham: We’re in the final— we’re in the final stretch, we’ve got about four minutes before we hit Neverwinter, you gotta do something quick.


Justin: Okay, I got a 19.


Griffin: Okay. This time you do it and the rod— a silvery web of light shoots out and fills the door and you can see with perfect clarity  the engineer’s car. It’s kind of disorienting because you’re facing backwards but through the front windshield of the train you see the train moving forwards, and yeah you can see into the engineer’s car.


Travis: Okay, let’s go in there. We go in there.


Justin: We all go in there.


Griffin: Okay.


Clint: We’re in there.


Taako: Does anybody— listen, does anybody know how to stop a train?


Magnus: I have vehicle proficiency.


Griffin: Graham says uh:


Taako: Of course you do.


Griffin: Graham— Graham says, uh:


Graham: I’ve been training my entire life for this, so I could… give it a shot.


Magnus: Wait, you’ve been training your entire life for this?


Graham: To be a train engineer, yeah absolutely.


Taako: Yeah, remember, in his backstory.


Magnus: Oh yeah.


Merle: Yeah.


Taako: Yeaaah.


Graham: Yeaah.


Taako: So you’ve done this in like video games before?


Graham: Yeah, basically. Well, dream vision fantasies.


[Laughter]


Clint: Still don’t want to acknowledge video games exist, okay.


Taako: Okay, go ahead.


Graham: No, tell me about these Video James. [Laughter] We’re gonna collide with Neverwinter in about three minutes, but tell me about Video James.


Clint: Should we—


Travis: Ha, Video James.


Clint: You know Video James!


Justin: Cool dude. Ladies love cool Video James.


Griffin: He says uh:


Graham: Everybody hold on tight.


Griffin: And he grabs the brake lever of the train.


Travis: I pop the pill— I pop the bean in my mouth.


Griffin: You pop the bean in your mouth. That thing’s gonna run out of magic pretty soon. You don’t have an infinite heavy bean.


Travis: Infinite bean!


Griffin: Infinite heavy bean!


Clint: Griffin, he ain’t heavy, he’s your brother.


Travis: Boom.


Griffin: And he rears back full strength on the brake lever, and it doesn’t move. And Graham says:


Graham: Oh shit. Hold on.


Griffin: And he tries it again.


Travis: Now Griffin, just— just to clarify before we move forward: Graham’s been training his whole life to pull a lever? [Clint laughs] There’s not like an intricate button pushing process, he doesn’t need to know how to work the computer?


Griffin: Uh, well—


Travis: He’s been training his whole life to pull a lever?


Griffin: As the brake refuses to move, Graham actually starts furiously punching buttons in the console and twisting knobs and moving other levers. And he looks over at a panel on the left side of the console and says:


Graham: Oh god no. Guys this one is also locked to the engineer’s handprint. Did anybody save one of those meat monsters’ hands?


Travis: …No.


Clint: We burned ‘em up, pretty much.


Justin: Yeah I thought they were disintegrated, is what you said.


Clint: Is it possible we can disconnect the locomotive from the rest of the train?


Graham: Yeah but the locomotive is still going to hit Neverwinter and it’s gonna cause a lot of damage.


Clint: Have you met us?


Justin: That’s some other D&D tr— game’s problem.


Clint: Yeah, let ‘em fix—


Griffin: Wait a minute, wait a minute.


Some Other D&D Adventurer: “You have safely brought the princess back to her chambers in Neverwinter after besting the 19 Dragons of the Horadrim and— OH FUCK A TRAIN! OH MY GOD NO A TRAIN JUST RAN IN—! Oh god no! Oh Jesus.”


[Laughter]


Clint: But we’d be safe.


Justin: I just, I— I’m just living out my lifelong dream of reenacting the end of Silver Streak. It’s all I’ve ever wanted.


Griffin: Graham is— is punching in other buttons and Angus is:


Angus: I— I’m too young to die. Oh, god, no this is gonna be terrible. What can we do?


Justin: I dunno.


Griffin: Graham says:


Graham: We— we’re not gonna be able to stop this train. We— we have to destroy it somehow.


Travis: Uhhhh.


Justin: Just give me a second— just give me a second to think.


Clint: I say we disconnect the— we blow up the locomotive and disconnect it. And we stay in the back part.


Justin: We have no, we have no like, I don’t— I don’t know that we have anything with that much power.


Travis: We need to access an area that has that much power—

Justin: Nothing can come through the door though.


Travis: —to port the locomotive to somewhere else?


Justin: Do— Okay.


Graham: There’s a— there’s an entry gate into Neverwinter that you have to go through before you arrive at the platform.


Taako: Wait a minute! I got it I got it, I got it. I got it. Okay. Listen: This is stupid. [Laughter] Are you ready to do something really stupid?


Travis: Magnus rushes in.


Graham: I’m willing to do anything, we have about two and a half minutes!


Merle: Again, have you just met us?


Justin: I take the port wand and I go into the engineer’s car, okay?


Griffin: Uh, okay.


Justin: Okay, and I— is there access to the roof or to the front of it, somewhere I can go stand?


Griffin: Well you wouldn’t be able to because you are in the illusory, you are in the port version of the engine car. So you can’t leave it except through any way that you went out. Yeah. There are other ways out the train though. There’s a door that you came through when you first boarded the train, right in front of the passenger car which is right behind the engine car.


Justin: Okay, I’ll go do that.


Griffin: Okay.


Justin: And I just need to get outside.


Griffin: Okay.


Justin: Okay.


Griffin: You are— okay, so you have popped open the door that you boarded the train through, between sort of the engine car and the passenger car, between the first and second cars on the train, and you have opened it and are hanging out.


Justin: Okay.


Griffin: Where is everybody else? I— I’m assuming they’ve left the engine car? Because they’ll be destroyed, if not.


Justin: It’s kind of up to them.


Clint: Well, we’re not sure what he’s thinking about. Are you thinking about creating a port and having the train go through it but in the opposite direction?


Justin: What I’m thinking about is I’m going to use this wand to change the gate into Neverwinter into a gate to Phandalin, because it’s the only place I know of that’s completely empty and made of glass.


Travis: Perfect.


Griffin: Well it would have to be— it would have to be in to a room with one entrance, but I like where your head’s at a lot.


Travis: Open it to Jenkins’s garden! Fuck that dude!


Justin: How big is Jenkins’s garden?



[Laughter]


Griffin: Uh, big enough for a train to crash into probably.


Justin: Excellent!


Clint: How about Tom Bodett’s house?


Justin: Tom Bodett we’re coming for you!


Travis: Can we get both of them?


Justin: We’re gonna come for you— No, that’s good. I’ve seen Jenkins’s garden, I’ve watched him open the door, I know how to do it. I can— I can change the gate at the last second into a door into Jenkins’ garden.


Griffin: Okay.


Justin: Okay.


Travis: Cast Levitate on all of us.


Justin: No no listen, I— we’ve got this. You just have to trust me.


Clint: [Laughing] No wait a minute!


Travis: Well…


Clint: He’s got a backpack full of stolen shit!


Griffin: You don’t know that.


Justin: Okay, listen—


Travis: Okay. Done, fuck it. You know what? I trust you Taako. I lay my hand on his shoulder.


Magnus: I trust you.


Taako: Oh— Excellent.


Graham: We’ll be at the—


Clint: I lay my— I lay my hand on his hip and say:


Merle: That’s as high as I can reach.


[Laughs]


Griffin: And then you dip. He dip. We dip, we dip.


Angus: These are all really great goofs, but we’re gonna hit the gate in one minute.


Magnus: Be cool Angus, for one second! This is a teambuilding moment.


Clint: What’s the range of the port wand?


Griffin: You— you have no way of knowing that.


Travis: Make us all lighter, anchor so we’re floating out the back.


Clint: Yeah!


Justin: Wait, what?


Travis: So tie it off to the crypt safe, we go out the back door so we’re, like, separate from the train.


Justin: But we don’t—  I don’t— I don’t have enough levitates to do that. I can’t levitate all of us.


Travis: Then levitate an object.


Taako: Aw shit, you know what? You know what? We’re just. Let’s just jump. How bout that?


Merle: Yeah!


Taako: Let’s just jump off a moving train.


Griffin: Yep. Yeah I mean, this is not a suspended bridge—


Justin: Yeah it’s a stupid garden, I’ll fall in some daffodils or something.


Travis: Okay.


Griffin: So wait, you’re gonna wait until you’re inside the garden to jump out?


Travis: No.


Taako: No… no


Clint: Cast the portal, jump out.


Justin: Cast the portal, jump off.


Griffin: This— as you lean out you are overlooking just sort of a plain type area with some other tracks running through it, sort of like a railyard.


Justin: Uhh.


Clint: I’m not saying it wouldn’t hurt.


Griffin: I’m not— Yeah, I’m saying if you jumped out you wouldn’t fall 150 feet to your death.


Justin: Okay, great. Let— how close are we to the gate though?


Griffin: I mean you’re— you’re 50 yards.


Justin: Perfect. Okay. Can— I mean, am I close enough that I could cast the spell or do I need to wait longer?


Griffin: Uh, I mean you can give it the old college try.


Justin: Oh great, okay. I’ll wait until…


Taako: Everybody off! Everybody jump, I’ll wait til I’m 25 yards.


Griffin: Okay.


Justin: ‘Cause I don’t wanna risk it.


Griffin: Angus says:


Angus: Are you sure about this? It seems like it’s gonna hurt a lot, sir.


Clint: God, hit him.


Justin: I push Angus off the train.


Taako: You’re fine!


Angus: Oh go— oh gosh!


Clint: He falls under the wheels!


Justin: No!


Clint: Tom Bodett style! You got Bodett’ed!


Griffin: No he— you throw this canary in the mineshaft off the train. You see him roll… a good distance. He sits up and gives you a thumbs up, but he’s missing two teeth.


Justin: Great, okay. Is everybody else— can everybody else hop off?


Travis: I jump, but I tuck and roll so as to incur no damage.


Griffin: Acrobatics check!


Travis: I rolled a 45!


Griffin: Nope, that’s not a number.


Travis: Uh-oh, what—  no, that’s not good, I’m gonna die.


Griffin: You won’t di— you won’t die die.


Travis: Won’t I? I only have one hit point Griffin.


Griffin: I mean that’s not death.


Travis: Uh, I rolled a 12.


Griffin: Okay, yeah that’s gonna hurt. It’s two hit points, which in— in any other circumstances I think would be a really good number to get.


Travis: Ugh.


Griffin: Uh, you see Magnus go off the train. He does not sit up and give a thumbs up.


[Laughter]


Griffin: Uh, next. Who’s jumping off?


Clint: I’m not jumping off yet. Let Josh— let Jess and Juicy jump off.


Griffin: Okay, Jess leaps off effortlessly. She actually, like, jumps off and then manages to like land on her feet running and just sort of stops moving. Perfect, like a cat.


Travis: Why didn’t I do that?


Griffin: ‘Cause you— she’s way cooler than you are. Like way way way cooler. And just sort of way better at… everything?


Travis: Fine.


Taako: Graham, once you’re off, do you have any magics that could tend to his wounds?


Graham: Uh, I can give it a try. I’ve got a— I’ve got a s—


Taako: Great, that’s good enough for me. Bye.


Graham: Okay. Well, I just wanna say I’m really proud of you.


Taako: Okay good.


Travis: [Laughing] Okay, get— get!


Graham: And I just wanted— I just want you to know that—


Justin: I p— I push him off the train too.


Graham: [Fading as he falls off the train] I just want— I just want you to know, that I wanna be like you somedaaaay!


Griffin: And he is— he is now off the train. I think that’s everyone.


Justin: Well, Merle and I are still on.


Griffin: Okay, you and Merle are still on the train.


Taako: Alright, let’s jump. ‘Cause this looks— we’re close, we’re real close.


Merle: Alright, you gonna cast the thing?


Taako: I probably need to jump and cast it afterwards so I can keep my concentration.


Griffin: Okay.


Justin: ‘Kay.


Clint: It’ll be real easy to concentrate when you’re rolling across those railroad ties.


Justin: No I mean I’ll hop up at the last second, it’s gonna be sweet.


Clint: That will be really cool.


Justin: Well let me get an acrobatic— what is it? What kind— do I need to do an acrobatics check? Or am I—


Griffin: Yes, both of you are making acrobatics checks.


Clint: Okay.


Justin: Okay. Uh, 16 plus two, 18.


Clint: Uh, 14 minus one, 13. Oh no, no I leveled that up. It’s zero. It’s just 14.


Griffin: Fourteen and what did you get, Taako?


Justin: Eighteen.


Griffin: Eighteen. Okay, Merle takes a little bit of damage.


Clint: Ow.


Griffin: Five damage. But Taako you do not! You land almost as gracefully as Jess did. Which is pretty impressive.


Justin: Great. And then I cast the— I focus on Jenkins’ garden and I cast— I use the transport wand on the gate into Neverwinter.


Griffin: Okay. Seconds before the train goes through the gate you point the port wand at the gate and make a spellcasting check. [Clint laughing]


Justin: Nineteen plus five, 24.


Griffin: Twenty-four? Okay, you see in a flash, the train platform of Neverwinter disappear, and in its place you see a lush garden. The train goes into it. You hear a cacophonous smash as the glass container of the greenhouse comes smashing down. You see greenery just sort of go flying, colliding with the back of the gate and just sort of stopping in mid-air and falling to the ground. And the train goes through, and as the container of the greenhouse is destroyed, the spell shuts off, and with a loud pop, the spell is interrupted and the train has vanished.


Magnus: Can I just say you guys, way more successful than our last one. We didn’t destroy a city or anything.


Merle: Except for the damn garden!


Taako: Yeah the garden—


Magnus: FUCK— Fuck Wankins’s garden. I don’t care about that dude.


Clint: [Laughing]


Taako: And— oh, everybody, I just remembered something terrible!


Magnus: What’s that?


Taako: We forgot to get the valuables off! Before we did that. Out of the safe.


Travis: And— and Merle and Magnus just kind of glare at Taako…


Angus: Oh no!— Angus says— Oh no! I was transporting my grandpa’s favorite silverware! I was gonna give it to him as a death-day present!


[Justin laughs]


Merle: Oh well!


Magnus: He’ll be happy you’re alive, Angus. That’s present enough.


Angus: No, he said specifically, “Bring me my— bring me my silverware. I’d like to see it one more time on my deathbed.”


Magnus: Well, maybe you’ll get lucky and he’ll be dead before you get there!


Angus: … We can only hope.


[Travis laughs]


Justin: Um, Griffin, can you say something about how we solved your train mystery?


Griffin: Oh, yeah— I mean, you actually did solve my— my murder puzzle. You have literally, for once, solved my Puzzle of…


Clint: —Murder!


Griffin: Of— You’ve solved my train puzzle.


Clint: Yeah!


Justin: Yay.


{30:25-36:01 ad break}


Griffin: Is somebody going to keep Magnus from dying?


Travis: That would be great!


Justin: I asked Graham to check on him.


Clint: Don’t we have healing potions?


Justin: —that works.


Griffin: Graham— Graham runs over to him and says:


Graham: Yeah, this guy’s, like, dying and I don’t have any healing spell— I’m, like, a wizard.


Justin: Do— will— do potions work on him if he’s, like, past that— that point?


Griffin: Yeah, sure, okay.


Travis: Well, What's— What’s your stabilize patient thing do, Dad?


Justin: Oh, Yeah! Can’t you use that?


Griffin: Yeah, you’ve been trying to use it all day.


Clint: Yeah, I can use it. [Justin and Griffin chuckle] … Well, uh, I mean, what kept me from doing it before?


Travis: I wasn’t actually at zero.


Griffin: Nobody was dead.


Travis: Yeah.


Griffin: He hadn’t jumped out of a train bad yet.


[Clint laughs]


Griffin: Okay—


Travis: Two points of damage isn’t that bad! I would challenge anyone to jump out of a train, and that was like stubbing a toe, but that had just happened to be enough that I died of toe-stubbage.


Clint: Okay, Spare the Dying, “You touch a living creature that has zero hit-points, the creature becomes stable.”


Griffin: Okay, you— you run back towards Magnus and touch him lovingly upon the hip and—


Clint: Can I do the— the “brushing the lock of hair off his forehead” thing? ‘Cause I—


Griffin: Yeah.


Travis: Yes you may.


Clint: That's so sweet.


Griffin: Yeah, you do that and he is stable, which means he’s basically at zero hit points and he’s not gonna die. But he does need to be— he does need to get some— some HP’s back. So a healing potion would probably go down real smooth right now.


Justin: Well… isn’t there probably an inn, or something in— that we could just walk to?


[Snickering]


Griffin: Yeah, sure.


Justin: Let’s just walk.


Griffin: Okay.


Justin: Wouldn’t that be better?


Clint: We’ll— we could carry him.


Justin: Yeah, let’s carry him.


Griffin: Okay. I like that, so—


Travis: I— I’m very light, I’ve got levitating boots.


Justin: Yeah, so he’s got levitating boots let’s just carry him.


Travis: Yeah.


Griffin: Okay, so you put an arm around each of your guys’ shoulders, and you carry him back in to the train platform. You’ve got Angus and Jess and Graham in tow, little battered, little bruised— not Jess, ‘cause she did a great job—


Travis: Because she’s the best.


Griffin: She’s just, super, super good at fighting and acrobatics and stuff. But yeah— you walk into the station, and standing on the platform are a bunch of very well-dressed, people with luggage who are just looking at you, mouth agape because they just watched a fucking train disappear. And the authorities run up, the Neverwinter Militia run up, and Angus produces a small badge from inside his jacket and goes:


Angus: It’s okay, they’re with me. [Justin snorts]


Griffin: And goes and starts to talk to them, and the the chaos of this scene eventually subsides a little bit, and you are inside the platform. Jess turns to you and goes:


Jess: Well, that was weird, there was a lot of static-talk, train disappeared, lot of really weird stuff just happened, but I gotta say, that was pretty exciting. I thought this was gonna be a pretty boring hype tour, but you guys sure livened it up, so if you’re ever, if you ever wanna come to one of my matches, I can get you in for free. On the house, just say the word.



Magnus: Quick question, Jess.


Jess: Yeah?


Magnus: Is that— is that soul-bound axe thing something you can teach me?


Jess: Uh, no, it’s just— you gotta find it, you gotta love it, you gotta nurture it, it’s a relationship!


Merle: Will you give it to him?


Jess: I can’t—


Magnus: We already tried that.


Clint: I thought that— I thought that was gonna be the next question, yeah, okay.


Magnus: No, we tried that like two episodes ago.


Jess: It’s also, the problem is that it’s probably gonna be way too heavy for him to even hold, so…


Magnus: [snarky] Well, you know what, Jess? Thanks so much, we’ll see ya later.


Jess: It was super nice to meet you guys, though.


Magnus: You can piss right off.


Taako: Jess, can I ask you one favor?


Jess: Yeah, hit me.


Taako: When you tell people the story of what happened, and they ask if I said anything cool when Jenkins got knocked off the train, can you just tell them I smiled and said, “Huh, no ticket?”


Clint: Ohh, that’s good!


Taako: That’s good, right? Tell them I said that.


Jess: Yeah.


Taako: If— When you tell the story, okay?


Jess: And this— this technically came out before Indiana Jones—


[Clint laughs]


Jess: —in like, the timeline of this fantasy history—


Taako: So I guess I made it— that up.


Jess: …Yeah.


Taako: I invented that. Tell them I invented that.


Travis: Wait…


Taako: If you go like, past a trademark place.


Jess: Just have them trademark your dope catchphrase.


Taako: Trademark it. That catchphrase, yeah.


Travis: Are we in— is Neverwinter in a world that exists, like thousands of years before Indiana Jones? Like, are we in the past? Are there dinosaurs?


Griffin: It’s up to you.


Clint: Or are we in the future?



Griffin: Yeah, Jess takes off and Graham, walks up to you guys and says:


Graham: I— I’ve gotta go write a report! Uh, this is— this is gonna be how I get my job for the Rockport Express. I’m gonna tell them everything that happened, and yeah, I think this might be a way to get my foot in the door!


Merle: One— one suggestion, Graham: Don’t bring up the whole “destroying an entire train” part.


Taako: Right, you may wanna edit the story.


Merle: Yeah, you don’t wanna include that in your dissertation.


Graham: I’ll leave that part out, I’ll say… that you guys, using your wits — you guys are just so great — managed to slow the train down… and there— well, no. They’re probably gonna see past that, because there’s no train.


Taako: Tell them—


Graham: Like, there’s just— there’s just no train anymore.


Taako: Yeah…


Graham: There used— there used to be a— where there once was a train, there is now no train. Is what I’m saying.


Taako: Right, exactly.


Graham: Anyways, super cool meeting you guys. Can I get like your, uh, your contact information? ‘Cause I’d love just to—


Travis: I hug— I hug Graham, and whisper in his ear:


Magnus: Let us be as two ships passing.


[Laughter]


Graham: I guess you’re right, I guess the best friendships that you make in this world are the ones… that just… come to an end. [Laughs] Just come to an abrupt—


Magnus: We’ll always remember you ‘til three episodes from now, when we can’t remember anything but “Juicy Wizard.”


Graham: That’s fine. That’s my name.


Merle: And we’ll always have Letterman’s Gap.


Graham: Do you guys know, by the way, the story of why my robes say “Juicy” on the butt?


Magnus: Okay, time to go!


Merle: No. [Laughs]


Magnus: Bye.


Graham: It was a great story, but I guess you’ll never know.


Magnus: Tell it to the bees.


Griffin: [Laughing] Wha— “Tell it to the bees?”


Magnus: Tell it to the bees.


Griffin: Okay.


Graham: I’m gonna go find some bees. Later, guys!


Taako: Hey, check me on LinkedIn! I’ll en— I’ll endorse you for train stuff, you endorse me for magic stuff … alright, bye!


Graham: That sounds very equitable. Bye!


Griffin: And he walks off into the crowd. And Angus walks away from the militia who have started to disperse off the platform and he walks up to you and says:



Angus: I gotta say you guys, I’m really proud of you. I— This was one of the toughest mysteries that I’ve ever solved on my— by myself, and, I—


Magnus: Well… Wait, hold on, I’d say we solved this one together.


Angus: Of course, yeah, no, it was a j— it was a joint effort—


Merle: WHOAAA, I’d say we solved it alone, without you.


Angus: Well, that seems… mean, I’m trying to like, do a heartfelt goodbye speech.


Clint: But this is the moment— this is the moment when they carry Jenkins’s body by on a gurney and he pops up from under a sheet—


Griffin: Uh-huh— and then, fucking Reginald VelJohnson shoots him.


[Laughter]


Justin: And then Reginald VelJohnson’s like, “No ticket.” or like, “Let us—”


Clint: [laughing, crosstalk] That’s his!


Justin: [crosstalk] First off, first off, that’s a trademark… violation. Second, it doesn’t even make any sense.


Clint: [laughing]


Travis: But it is nice to know that Reginald VelJohnson has learned to kill again.


Griffin: Right.

Justin: And it’s nice that he’s a fan of the show, apparently!


Travis: Yeah.


Griffin: Angus looks at you and goes, “I shot a kid.”


[Laughter]


Griffin: That’s… That’s the best, that’s the best line reading of anything in the world but— I know we’re going completely off the rails right now, but “I shot a kid” is the best… any line has ever been delivered in the world. Angus says—


Travis: [laughing] His name was Urkel.


Griffin: Uh—


Travis: That dude.


Griffin: Angus says:


Angus: I want you guys to have something, ‘cause I was gonna take it back to the station, because it shouldn’t fall into unsafe hands but you guys seem like you’ll be able to take care of it, and maybe you’ll get a lot of use out of it.


Griffin: And he, uh, pulls out, uh, the rusted compass, out of his pocket, and uh—


Clint: I take it!


Griffin: Okay, and he hands it to Merle, and Merle, you pop it open and it   to be pointing… toward Taako’s bag, which is weird, but you don’t—


Clint: [crosstalk] Ohh, okay.


Justin: [crosstalk] I have— I have the monocle in there.


Griffin: Oh.


Travis: Oh, um, quick OOC moment… how good was the OC? We’re walking away from this with the monocle, the compass, AND the port wine, right? “Port wine”— the port wand.


Griffin: Yes.


Clint: Aha…


Travis: Oh, shit! We forgot to get Pringles for our roommate.


Griffin: [crosstalk] Yeah, no— well, I mean, you did—


Clint: [crosstalk] Well, we haven’t left yet.


Griffin: [crosstalk] Yeah, there’s still—


Travis: Is there like a newsstand on the train station or something where I could pick up, like they have something like Sour Patch Kids, or—


Griffin: Angus says, Angus says,


Angus: And I have one other gift for you.


Griffin: And he retrieves… it’s a miniature, it’s like one of those snack size canisters, and it’s Sour Cream & Onion which is not the best kind of Pringle—


Clint: No…


Griffin: But he says:


Angus: They’re yours if— they’re yours if you want ‘em. I was gonna have ‘em as a traintime snack, but I forgot to eat ‘em in the train times.


Taako: And I have, I have something for you. I managed to get one piece of the treasure out of the, out of the crypt. And it’s—


Angus: You got my grandpa’s silverware?


Taako: Ah, well—


Angus: You got the whole set?


Taako: Sadly, I was only able to preserve a few pieces of it, but something’s better than nothing, I guess.


Justin: And I hand him three forks.


[Clint laughs]


Angus: …Thanks. I was really, I was really— you got me really excited that you rescued the whole set, ‘cause I think— honestly I think if I just show these three forks to my grandpa, he’s just gonna get angry.


Taako: Listen, kid, I’m not a magic worker, okay?


Magnus: …Wait—


Taako: Well, I am, but— technically speaking, I am in fact a magic worker, but… I’m busy.


Griffin: Uh, he— he says—


Travis: Hey, I’m still dying!


Griffin: Uh-huh, yeah, that’s true. He says,


Angus: If you, if you guys ever run into any mysteries that you can’t solve, uh, just drop me a line, and I’ll be there in a flash!


Griffin: And… He hands you a card that just says “Angus McDonald” on it, but there’s no phone number or anything ‘cause phones don’t exist, so it’s not the best business card, but he gives it to you anyway.


[Clint laughs]


Travis: We’ll use the port wand to find him.


Justin: Does it have his LinkedIn address? Then I can find him on LinkedIn, just do that.


Griffin: Yeah. Okay.


Travis: Chainli— ChainlinkedIn.


Griffin: Oh, I get it.


Clint: That was good!


Griffin: Yeah!


Travis: Thank you.


Griffin: So yeah, you stop by the Neverwinter Clinic, I’m guessing, to keep your—


Travis: [laughing] To get the bumps on our genitals checked out!


[laughter]


Griffin: “This guy’s almost dead and you guys all have syphilis; what happened?”


[laughter]


Griffin: “How can this be?” And yeah, you’ve— that’s all of the content I’ve created. So what do you wanna do now? Let’s just fucking freestyle it.


Taako: Well, we’ve got 15 minutes. I actually had a suggestion that I wanted to suggest to you guys before we go too much further.


Griffin: Okay.


Justin: I think it would be worth— we have 15 minutes— I think it would be really a good use of our time to develop some character voices. Because I think that this nonsense of saying, “I’m saying this in character, I’m not saying in character,” and I think it’s getting confusing. For me, it’s very easy to tell ‘cause I have this distinguishing factor.


Travis: Do you think— Okay, what about this for Magnus—


Griffin: But a few, a few requests. Don’t be— Don’t make them so terrible.


Travis: Uh-huh.


Griffin: And unlistenable. No Scottish acc— no Spanish accents, no Scottish accents.


Justin: Right.


Travis: This is, this is my suggestion for Magnus.


Griffin: Just tweak it.


Travis: [crosstalk] If Magnus talked like this.


Justin: [crosstalk] All right, Dad and I’ll listen and just kinda like see what grabs us.


Clint: Okay.


Magnus: [slightly deep, gruff voice] Let’s rush into adventure.


Griffin: See, I like that.


Travis: Yeah?


Griffin: It’s simple, it’s gruff, it’s— it’s just a slightly modified—


Magnus: I think that what we should do—


Griffin: Well, you’re getting—


Clint: [crosstalk] Now you’re getting all Sean Connery.


Justin: [crosstalk] A little Sean Connery.


Magnus: [crosstalk] Here’s what we should do. This is— Okay, this— I’m just gonna stick with this. This is Magnus’s voice.


Griffin: Gruff, gruff. See, it’s fucking hard, isn’t it? Doing one voice. Try doing eight, and they’re all on the same train.


Clint: Yeah, done it for 40 years. So go ahead.


Justin: Burn.


Griffin: Well this is, I— Next time, you can DM, and all the NPCs will be Ducky Crabtree or something.


[laughter]


Travis: Dad, I think— yeah, Dad, I think Merle should sound like Ducky Crabtree. Could you do a little Ducky for us now?


Griffin: Ducky Crabtree is our dad’s famous radio personality that he created.


Justin: One of many! Don’t forget, like, Spud Rimshot.


Griffin: Spud Rimshot, yeah. But for me, it’s a— I’m a Ducky Crabtree man at heart.


Justin: Well okay, everyone’s got their own—


Clint: Gosh really, Ducky as the uh-huh, okay.


Travis: Do it. Do it, coward.


Clint: Um, all right. I will.


Griffin: How long’s it been since you’ve dusted off ol’ Ducky? Pulled him off the shelf?


Clint: [laughing] It’s been a long time! Been about two and a half years, I guess!


Travis: All right, let’s hear him.


Clint: Okay, um.


Merle: [sort of higher-pitched voice with a Southern twang] What d’ya mean I can’t cast Sanctuary? What d’ya mean I’m outta spell slots?


Clint: I think that might be a little distracting.


Travis: [crosstalk] Pretty good.


Griffin: [crosstalk] That’s pretty good, because that’s also things that you would do, which is try to cast spells when you can’t.


Clint: Well, that was the— that was my ironic joke there.


Griffin: It was good! I— Let’s keep workshopping Merle.


Clint: All right.


Griffin: Because that’s gonna be rough to listen to a lot of.


Clint: Yeah. Um—


Griffin: Ducky Crabtree is good in short bursts.


Clint: Now, are we set on— Are we set on Magnus? On that kind of deep and gruff?


Travis: Is it ‘cause that’s what you wanted for Merle?


Clint: Well I was thinking if Merle were short…


Justin: Well why don’t you lean in to sort of like your Pan roots, you know, like some of your more nature…


Griffin: Yeah, I gotta say you just destroyed a beautiful garden, and that seems like a non-crunchy thing to do.


Justin: Non-crunchy, yeah.


Clint: Oh it hurt. It hurt. Uh…


Justin: Maybe something in that crunchy range. Is there something in that sort of like granola hippy place that you could go?


Clint: Hmm, let’s see.


Travis: You know what I’m picturing? I’m picturing if Danny DeVito were, like, a devout crunchy dude.


Justin: [quietly] What does that sound like?


Griffin: And he— and he might be.


Justin: He may be, I don’t know him that well, personally.


Clint: Devout crunchy, so…


Travis: Mmhmm.


Clint: [In a higher, raspy voice] So maybe if it was a little more natural? Maybe along the lines….


[Crosstalk]


Griffin: Well less— less Gary— I want you to take the Gary Sinise knob, and I want you to turn it to fucking zero.


[Justin laughs]


Travis: Yeah, but that’s close. I like that direction.


Justin: Yeah I like the direction too.


Clint: Alright, so a little raspy. Maybe raspy?


Justin: Yeah.


Clint: [In Merle’s voice] That would hurt, I don’t know if I could— Okay, uh, yeah maybe that would work. That goes away from Magnus.


Griffin: There we go, there we go, there we go.


Justin: Yeah!


Travis: I— I really think that’s it.


Clint: It’s almost a Clint Eastwood feel.


Justin: Yeah, like an effete Sam Elliott.


Clint: Yeah.


[Laughing]


Clint: Oh, okay, maybe even a little lower. Where you going with that? Or do you want it up a little higher?


Travis: Well don’t get too gruff, or you’re getting in to Magnus territory.


Griffin: Yeah and you’re getting— you’re getting into a weirdly sexual character.


Clint: So let’s go with raspy and high.


Justin: Yeah.


Clint: And kind of an earthy, uh, yeah alright.


Justin: Kind of a Bob Ross vibe.


Travis: I want you to say “Have you heard the good news about Pan today?”


Clint: Have you heard the good news about Pan today?


Justin: Yeah I like that.


Travis: Yeah, I think you got it.


Griffin: Yeah, you’re in it.


Clint: Let me open up this, uh, Teen Extreme Bible and read a few passages.


Travis: What I like is that you’ve got a good combination of like crunchy granola and also kinda creepy youth minister.


Justin: [In a Creepy Youth Minister Voice] “You guys wanna see some really— realistic unicorn paintings?”


Clint: Hey there you go. Hey that almost sounds like a late FM disc jockey too.


Justin: “Check out the side of my van.”


Clint: Alright we got Peter Cetera now, coming up.


Griffin: Definitely, definitely a core competency.


Justin: Do kids like Bit o’ Honey? [Chuckling]


Griffin: Nobody likes Bit o’ Honey. Uh, are you— so anybody wanna go back to the moon?


Travis: Oh yeah! Let’s activate our bracers!


Clint: How— What’s the response time on calling the crystal balls?


Griffin: Uh, it depends—


Travis: About 10 minutes.


Griffin: Depends on how far away you are from the— from the headquarters.


Clint: Alright, and it really doesn’t make any sense for us to go shopping in town, cause there’s nothing we’re not gonna be able to find—


Griffin: Oh baby, Fantasy Costco’s got everything!


Clint: Yeah.


Travis: And in bulk!


Clint: Mmm.


Taako: Let’s— listen. Uh, I think the most important thing we can do is get these Pringles back to our roommate… Pringles? Was that his name? I don’t remember.


Merle: Actually don’t you think we ought to heal up poor Magnus first?


Magnus: No we went to the clinic.


Taako: We went to the clinic, remember? For our sexually transmitted diseases?


Merle: Oh yeah. Oh I thought that was that kind of clinic.


Taako: No, no.


Magnus: It was— it was both!


Taako: It was all kinds.


Griffin: Unfortunately you owe the clinic 15,000 gold pieces.


Magnus: Time to go!


[Laughter]


Merle: Good luck collecting that, suckers!


Griffin: Uh, okay. You’re gonna have to find a safe spot, I’m guessing maybe you want to head out of town, so that nobody sees your—


Clint: Balls?


Griffin: Your balls. [Someone snorts]


Travis: Yeah, we do that.


Griffin: Okay.


Travis: That thing you just said.


Griffin: Alright, yeah, you are able to summon a ball from the southeast. Over the mountains you see one of these crystal spheres shoot down and uh is rocketing towards you in the plains just outside of the Neverwinter city limits. It slows down very slightly before it hits the ground, it’s still—


Travis: Oh I forgot to ask, what band is on this episode of Neverwinter City Limits?


[laughter]


Griffin: That’s pretty good.


Travis: Thank you.


Griffin: It’s, uh… it’s the… what’s a funny band?


[laughter]


Clint: Bananarama?


Griffin: It’s Morris Day and The Time. So you may not— you may not wanna leave. You may wanna catch The Time. Yeah this sphere collides with the ground, leaves a little skid mark on entry. And the door pops open.


Travis: We get in.


Merle: Let’s get in.


Griffin: Okay, you are floating back toward the moon, back over the mountains, you can see the— the Teeth below you, you see the Letterman’s Basin below you, it’s another beautiful scene. You’re floating up, it’s midday as you’re moving up. Up, up, up, over the clouds and as you penetrate the cloud layer, uh—


Clint: The credits start to roll.


Griffin: The credits start to roll, soft accordion music is playing, and you—


Clint: [Singing] Que sera, sera…


Griffin: And you see the moon above you getting closer, much closer and then a small hole opens up in it and you fly up into the moon. And are received in the, launch room by— oh fuck, what’s his name— Avi?


Merle: Avi!


Griffin: You are received by Avi, who says, uh:


Avi: Uh, hey guys, how’d it go?


Travis: Well, hold on. Avi’s great and all, but we did just collect another article. I thought maybe we’d get some kind of hero’s welcome. Like end of, like, what is it? End of New Hope.


Griffin: Uh, nope. Nothing like that!


Travis: [Laughing] Okay!


Griffin: I— This is, uh—


Clint: Griffin, I wanna know something. Do you have a wall, like the homicide detectives, you know that’s just covered with pictures of all these people like Avi and—


Justin: You know Avi—


Griffin: And Johann…


Clint: How do you keep it straight?


Griffin: All in my domepiece, brother.


Justin: That’s amazing.


Griffin: I got a— I got a murder wall in my brain.


Justin: That’s— that’s weird.


Taako: Avi listen, we need to get to the administrator’s as soon as possible.


Avi: Did you recover— did you recover a relic?


Magnus: Yeah.


Taako: Yeah, for sure.


Avi: You guys are unstoppable!


Taako: Well…


Avi: You guys— you guys are fucking legends.


Merle: Yeah.


Taako: We’re like a runaway train, never coming back.


Clint: Whoa!


Griffin: I get it!


Justin: And I jump— and then we all three jump into the air and fucking freezeframe. And it says—


Travis: For six minutes.


Justin: It says “Miller Boyett Productions” at the end of the episode.


Clint: Sit Ubu, sit.


[Travis sort of sings Deja Vu]


Justin: Good dog.


[Laughter]


Griffin: The entire Quantum Leap theme plays, and you unfreeze and Avi leads you back to the Director’s chamber. And she says:


The Director: I can’t believe you’ve done it again. I can’t believe you’ve done this.


Griffin: And wheels out another one of those heavy lead balls, led by a heavily armed guard who wheels it up to you on a tray and pops the hole open in the lead ball. Points towards it and says:


Guard: Put it right in there brother!


Clint: Where’s Davenport?!


Justin: I have a question. If I— if I’ve already resisted the thrall of it, am I cool to—


Griffin: Yeah you’re cool.

\

Justin: Okay. I take out the monocle and I put it in the ball.


Griffin: Okay. As he shuts the window pane door of the— of this lead ball you hear a voice from inside go:


The Monocle: Aw, come on man. Oh, come oooonnnn. Oh— [Muffled] Aw come, come on man. Aw man. Maaaan.


[Clint laughs]


Griffin: And the guard wheels the lead ball out of the room—


Travis: Man, we didn’t even get to play with the monocle.


Clint: We don’t even know what it does!


Griffin: And wheels it into the Cerebro chamber, and the Director pulls the curtain so you can see into the chamber. Same thing happens— the lead ball floats up, columns of light shoot through it, and then the ball descends. The, guard comes into the chamber, wheels the ball out, back into the room and opens it up, and it is empty.


Merle: It’s beautif— what?


Griffin: And the Director says:


The Director: You have just destroyed another incredibly powerful relic. That relic was imbued with impossible illusion magic. It’s called the Oculus. Rift. No. [Laughter] It’s just called the Oculus. And it— it is able to turn anything you create with illusion magic into something real. Into something tangible.


Magnus: But that sounds great!


Taako: It really— it sounds awesome.


The Director: It’s really great— unless you use it to conjure an illusory army or some sort of illusory dragon—


Taako: Still sounds great. Very great.


The Director: Or an illusory black hole that then destroys the world.


Merle: Not seeing a downside.


Magnus: But— but we could’ve used that for so much good!


The Director: You cannot use the Grand Relics for good. They— their power overwhelms and inevitably leads only to evil.


[Crosstalk]


Travis: Griffin, in case you’re wondering, this is the scene at which we start to plant the seed of like oh, 20 episodes from now when Magnus like splinters off and is like “We can use these for good.” This is the beginning of it.


Griffin: Oh, I see I see I see.


Travis: Okay.


Clint: Yeah, this is the endgame, we’re setting the scene for the endgame.


Justin: Right.


Travis: Yeah, this all begins now.


Griffin: Okay.


Magnus: We could have used it for good! The power, as long as it was wielded responsibly.


Griffin: The Director says:


The Director: You better keep that shit in check.[Clint laughs] ‘Cause that— that sort of thinking will consume you, and tear you apart from your friends, and lead you to create a rival Bureau— Faction.


Magnus: You’re probably right, this will probably never come up again.


Clint: Led by Dark Magnus.


Taako: Sorry, but once Magnus gets started thinking about something it’s hard to stop. He’s like a runaway train never coming back.


Clint: [Laughing] Oh ho! Jump in the air and high five again!


[Crosstalk about high fives and freeze frames]


The Director: I take it— I take it your adventure involved the train?


Magnus: Well yeah. You knew that. You sent us down there to get on the train. Come on.


Taako: Yeah. Yeah… yeah. You know the story.


The Director: I just would have thought that you would have used your powers of persuasion to get the relic off the train before it even departed, but the— the way you did it was certainly interesting.


Magnus: Well that’s what we’re here for.


Taako: Ours had murther.


The Director: Had what?


Magnus: Yeah.


Taako: Mur-ther? Most foul.


[Giggling]


Taako: The modern bee sting!


Travis: We made some— we made some good friends and we grew closer as a group along the way. I would say it was very satisfying as far as storytelling goes.


The Director: Well friendship, I would say, is the greatest reward that you can receive in this life or any other life.


Magnus: That said, it is important that when we erase this from everyone’s memories, we also erase it from like Angus and Graham— I don’t want those people calling us.


The Director: That won’t be necessary. We won’t need to erase anyone’s memory on this job because you didn’t destroy a city this time.


Merle: We destroyed a garden.


Magnus: Yay! Is this our— is this our quarterly review?


The Director: This is your quarterly review. Compared to last time, 100 percent year-over-year improvement.


Magnus: Yay!


The Director: Do y’all wanna get paid or nah?


Magnus: Yeah.


Merle: Yeah.


Taako: Yeah.


The Director: DAVENPORT!


Griffin: And Davenport comes out.


Davenport: Davenport!


Griffin: And walks up to you with a silver tray with three more Fantasy Gashapon tokens on it and a sack containing 2100 gold pieces.


Taako: Woo!


Magnus: And how much is the stuff in Taako’s bag worth?


The Director: What, uh, what— sorry, what?


Magnus: The stuff clanking around as we walked around town?


Taako: That’s my CPAP machine.


[Travis and Clint absolutely lose it]


Taako: [begrudgingly] And I’ll— thanks for bringing it up though. It’s really nice. Wow, what scumbags you are, huh? Guy’s got one fallibility, gotta rub it in his face.


Clint: And here’s the bad thing, only one of us actually uses a CPAP machine! Why am I laughing?


Taako: It’s not funny.


Griffin: It’s pretty funny.


Clint: Alright, then in that case no perception check, let him keep it.


Justin: I don’t mean to pick on you Dad. Once I get started it’s hard to stop. It’s like a runaway train!


Clint: Ha! High five!


Justin: High five! Freeze frame! How much longer? Are we done?


Clint: [Laughing] We’re done.
